# February 14, 2025

## Logistics

12-1 PM EST / 9-10AM PST / 5-6PM GMT

## Agenda

* AFCG Meetings/Topics (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZFBv0jejVhN1Su4jMSioXOtVOu0IGYJMMRn4cTlIIck/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11jx_j7aUdM2EdjDQQYMe1hb7SdIAbWWkHRv0GxKE8FQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes
Scheduling:
Main topic is scheduling AFCG meetings, and talking about Chairs
We use the slack channel for discussion between meetings
Currently we meet every two weeks, and tend to skip about half of them.
Proposing that we move to a monthly AFCG meeting, and use the 2-week periods in between for one-off deep dives. Brian May is supportive of this idea, and we took a poll - no detractors it seems. 

Anti Fraud CG Chairs:
Some of the chair members currently have time scheduling conflicts. Gauging potential interest for a 3rd chair.

Brian: Should we suggest a process for suggesting deep-dive meeting topics?
Steven: At the end of each meeting, we’ll open the floor for suggestions - will talk to Sofia about more official ways of doing this.

Upcoming topics:
Anonymous credentials ZKPs (discussion at IETF, will bring back learnings and topics)
AYRA (formerly global acceptance network) is talking about trust networks and one of its first projects is likely to be First Person Credentials, using ZKP to present aspects of personhood while countering Sybil attacks. Wendy will share links when there’s more
Chrome IP Protection (updated explainer here: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection)
How does this impact rate-limiting? (Maxime Guerreiro)
Cookie Changes across the web ecosystem
Fingerprinting Guidance (TAG document) 
GPC (Global Privacy Control)
On-device attackers (token theft / exfiltration) - device bound session credentials like solutions - are there web platform design principles that would be helpful? Additions to the TAG privacy & security questionnaire?
Q: Is this a worthy pursuit? - there seems to be some interest (Maxime Guerreiro) 
Currently websites often use fingerprinting to protect against these attacks.
Hopefully this can become less of a cat and mouse game?
Advocate for more design principles that could prevent fraud:
Get more developers involved, shift focus to not just be at a browser level.
Doing so while keeping privacy in mind (Brian May) 
Balancing Antifraud/Privacy/Openness - (Steven Valdez + Time Huber)
