# March 28, 2025

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Mitigating Fingerprint Impersonation (30 minutes)
* Private Proof API (30 minutes)


## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bO5AxMO76VRdUjeX5VoQyiV85s-kx5HxMd7XZqL6jnQ/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-JYbMKi86u71R6aQKvExAgoHsA8aCKFanMTXBkJDHu0/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Mitigating Fingerpint Impersonation Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uVFVjGwHhX64Uh63GRhSuHQFdTlfS_Vi7OaqO5Pp-Xw/edit)
* [Private Proof API Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1A_JaafRb_QCs8NTIxwPqoCAVusnTy07g2BG_I22qf9M/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes
Admin: Steven will be stepping down as chair. Seeking volunteers to join as co-chairs. Email Steven and Sofia with interest.

**Fingerprinting Impersonation (Benjamin Brundage)**

Slides: [Mitigating Fingerprint Impersonation ](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uVFVjGwHhX64Uh63GRhSuHQFdTlfS_Vi7OaqO5Pp-Xw/edit)



*   Steven Valdez (location of signal gathering) - do we see that mostly this is innocent devices visiting bad websites or malicious / compromised devices?
    *   Benjamin: 4 attributes commonly pass in. So most common approach is websites grabbing fingerprints. In general, much easier. With a malware approach, harder to get all of the values.
*   Per Bjorke: Any suggestions/ideas for any web standards that can more fundamentally “solve” this challenge?
    *   Benjamin: Needs to be some API that has widespread adoption to verify the legitimacy of the interaction. Think the shift needs to move to a zero proof system, mitigating large scale bot farms. Do think a unified system needs to be present.
*   Sam Schlesinger: You mentioned there are no legitimate ways for a non-spoofing browser to have invalid FPs, but via extensions it’s super possible to modify the user agenda and the FPs. This is broadly a problem, and ZKPs don’t fix it fully. There will be token economies that pop up.
    *   Benjamin: You get this situation where the FP is harder to rely on. It used to be that Canvas was easier to rely on, but the browser ecosystem has evolved. Worth also looking at the average user - less privacy cognizant, smaller number of privacy conscious folks.
*   Wendy Seltzer: As you’re looking to make FPs more reliable way of determining person/bot, how do we ensure we are not discriminating against privacy-focused users?
*   Per: This is the essence - how do we fight fraud and abuse while also ensuring we protect privacy.

**Private Proof API (Sam Schlesinger, Eric Trouton)**

Slides: [Private Proofs API - AFCG](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1A_JaafRb_QCs8NTIxwPqoCAVusnTy07g2BG_I22qf9M/edit?usp=sharing), explainer: https://explainers-by-googlers.github.io/private-proof/        



*   Per: What’s the fundamental thing that you start with? The user is somehow confirming something with one website and then can be passed along to another website? Kind of like what Trust Tokens did. Back to that first website, what type of proof would that be?
    *   Sam Schlesinger: For the captcha example, let’s say user visits news1.com. News1.com has user fill out captcha, gets issued a private proof token, added to browser. When user goes to News2.com, website checks for a token and checks to confirm that the token is less than or equal to some value (confidence score) and confirm the rate limiting constraints are met.
    *   Per: The foundation for News1.com is based on something that News1.com has, right?
    *   Sam: Yes, that’s right. Worth noting that it’s more flexible because it replenishes itself.
    *   Per: Basically, we’re relying on some initial mechanism and then there’s a way to pass along to another site.
    *   Eric: If you think about the cookie age example - the first site needs to know when they’ve seen a user in order to set the value initially
*   Brian May: Seems like you could interact with a user on a high reputation site and then use this mechanism on a lower reputation site. You mention the similarities with vendors – is this a specific limitation or is there a cross-vendor /vendor agnostic approach being developed?
    *   Sam: Not vendor agnostic – similar to private state tokens. We understand some techniques we could use, but comes with efficiency tradeoffs.
    *   Brian: Concerned about the entity collecting lots of proofs who could force out other smaller providers – compounds scale advantages for bigger players.
*   Wendy Seltzer: The user is id’d as the same user to the anti-fraud vendor across sites?
    *   Sam: No, we don’t provide any information about the token. We can prove the token exists, but not share underlying identifying information.
*   Brian: Who is required to trust other entities and what are they required to do?
    *   Sam: We don’t send a signed token to the verifying server.
    *   Brian: That means we’re trusting the browser. Are there other areas where we have some degree of trust?
    *   Sam: In these kinds of situations, we’re going to have to trust the browser to correctly implement the protocol.
    *   Eric: Also why we have the rate limiting function. Would be hard for a malicious browser to spoof the proof.
    *   Sam: Right - you can’t spoof a proof. But I think what Brian is concerned about is the privacy aspect?
    *   Brian: There’s no round-tripping of something that the browser can do to verify that the token was something that was actually generated. 
    *   Sam: In other words – token theft?
    *   Brian: If I’m an attester, providing tokens. Browser says yes, you are within those range of values. Do I trust the browser is being honest?
    *   Sam: Ahh - no! This is what the ZKP verifies. That there’s definitely a token that is less than or equal to the bound. Token Theft is still a concern here (though limited by the rate limited approach) – but the browser definitely has a token. To be clear, this comes out of some discussions we had here about Shared Storage, and this approach helps us harden the API’s guarantees.

Admin: Would be helpful for deep dive into Private Proof crypto? \
Thumbs up!
