# June 20, 2025

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Web Bot Auth (30 mins)
* Privacy Pass for Advertising Anti-Fraud (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_THfY-tqwUj0UAISmGZgPHfuIcbg7CdKr1ymOn1OuiI/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qt8YkQ19_0JMlxkkz_WFs3YYGf0eicf_YJs3rH0Uz5c/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Vinod's Slides](../files/W3C-device attestation-presentation-v0.1.pptx)

## Minutes

Thibault presenting on Web Bot Auth
Last IETF meeting: how can we authenticate on the internet?
More pressure with AI to push for the work
Want to be able to identify benevolent automated traffic
Authenticate willing bots
Human/Bots: does it matter?
Reverse proxy in between the human and the origin since there could be privacy-preserving mechanisms
Categories of authentication
Identifying providers
User account identification
Attribute-based access
Proposals
HTTP Message Signatures based proposal (RFC 9421)
Assumption that both the origin and the agent have exchanged public key material
Agent adds “Signature-Agent” header - could be a domain
Agent adds “Signature-Input” - constructed from HTTP message and key
Two drafts published that define the above two
Live demo available on the Cloudflare blog
Open questions
How can one entity delegate its authority?
Minimize bytes and verification overhead
Liaison with existing ecosystems (AI protocols such as MCP, A2S, AGENTCY, etc.)
Do we need a web API
Looking forward
Drafts on datatracker
Next IETF will have discussions
Mailing list on web-bot-auth

Brian: Is the signature agent required just for key discovery?

Brian: Aren’t the semantics of this essentially the same for that of a logged in user?
Thibault: Yes
Brian: Is it for multi-session?
Thibault: Are possibilities but draft isn’t going into that detail yet. Inputs welcome.

Alex: In the Human agent diagram, there’s one more case of the agent running on the human’s machine. Would look like bot traffic but isn’t hosted by the company. “Agent” is also overloaded since a browser is the “user agent”. Would help to clarify these terms. Regarding Web API, might be a dangerous topic. If this is part of browsers, it could allow behaviors similar to Web Environment Integrity. That might allow the websites to control traffic (when browsers sign requests cryptographically).
Signature-Agent is part of the signature itself. Maybe it needs to be a dictionary to be able to sign by multiple signature agents. Similarly, X-Forwarded-For/Forwarded headers might be good to be signed but multiple parties can add them.
How would this work with CORS requests? Additional headers may trigger CORS pre-flight

Brian: Can you clarify the use cases that this solution would apply to?


Thibault: Web crawlers and half crawlers (AI operators doing retrieval). Way to identify themselves as a provider.

Brian: Help website identify conclusively that the request is coming from a web crawler? Guessing that the topology of the internet is going to change very quickly. Agent internet accessible internet endpoints would be created since websites would be inefficient. Websites are getting crushed by agents. Agent has to parse through the HTML and get the content. This will result in converging to agents pulling directly from API endpoints, so the scope of this is limited.

Sam: Use case is scoped to authentication. Lot of people are developing web crawling bots using tools like MCP. Would be great to have automation so they could get better access to systems. Would be good to track this (esp because there are the WEI-type risks that were called out).

Ben: Following up on that, why would web API trigger the problem? It sounds like this is a cryptographically signed UA string. What is the user agent “level”? So user agent sniffing techniques would still be possible, but in a much more restrictive fashion.

Separately, does this proposal help with detecting if there is valid human intent behind the request or just validating the tool the user is using?  For anti fraud we care about whether there’s a real human behind the activity that’s going on. This validates the tool, but we still can’t tell if it’s being operated by a human. So how is this helping with the fraud problem?

Sam: Let’s have the questions going to the mailing list and move on.

Brian: Can you clarify the concern around Web API?

Sam: If the Web API sent short-lived keys to the browser so it could authenticate local agent actions, it could be misused. It should be designed with the non-goal of reimplementing the WEI use case.

Brian: This is helping identify the bot, nothing to do with the human being.


Vinod presenting on Privacy Pass for Ads Anti-Fraud
The body can be spoofed. Advertisers expect their ads to run on a certain device but it might not. % of ad spend is wasted and unavailable to legitimate publishers. Ads.txt and app-ads.txt are for different types of spoofing. It places trust in intermediaries. E.g. resellers could spoof traffic. 
Requirements
Should be a mechanism, not reliant on good intentions
 



Privacy pass is for device attestation.

[Going through the attestation flow]

Brian: Why not do it proactively, prior to the bid?
Vinod: Latency is significant. Think of the system as feeding into the prebid decision.
Brian: That’s kind of using a hammer
Vinod: That’s the goal

[Demo]

Theo: How does this extend to the web platform?
Vinod: Websites are not specifically a use case we’re going after. The web video version of the SDK is what will end up supporting this at the outset.
Thibault: How do you get the pub keys?
Vinod: The issuers and verifiers work closely together. The shared model is a typical model for post-bid verification. In that case the measurement endpoint measures the events that take place. There’s an incentive for verifiers to make sure the event comes from them. If we have a single issuer then the attester doesn’t know if a certain origin is trying to challenge excessively. Being able to control the token issuance at the issuer level becomes easier.
Sam: Are there any limitations with this approach? E.g. we talked about at/after bid time. Are there extensions you’d see for other usecases?
Vinod: One of the things we’re thinking of is an attestation mechanism. First is device attestation capability. We can do location, we can do ... attestation. If the first step makes sense then it can be extended.
Brian: Who gets the information that comes out of this? The measurement provider or someone can say that the impression was valid. Is there an intent to share this information?
Vinod: The model would work at the supplier level. The measurement vendor wouldn’t be able to know that this is a particular device. If there are significant cases that there are abuses we can go after a supplier.
Brian: The intent is to share this information across the information across the ecosystem
Vinod: Yes, that is the intent


Sam: Both proposals seem to be interesting to people. Hopefully there will be a deep dive on them.

