# March 3, 2023

## Logistics

12-1 PM EST / 9-10AM PST / 5-6PM GMT

## Agenda

* PAT in Practice (15 mins)
* Trigger Attestation (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1to2ikNIJPFE9QHR6txhB3iuIfsabp7qOwOIPW1WaMHI/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19DWe_mrr8AmskofO9bpuWCsCyg5CbBUH43XtDIA_ak0/edit?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-RgZ2HMdXuTcyV72LiN-RBQ)
* [PAT in Practice Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xQ3Nd0SmqBj9KPdoCG3Hu-1EL320FZSn6qSp_316j1M/edit#slide=id.g20363d09bae_0_69)
* [Trigger Attestation Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iKcLYHQA3RHprZw2y5ds3QRc27dKWZaBB-7mCZMF0I8/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Trigger Attestation](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/trigger_attestation.md)

## Minutes

PAT in practice presented by Maxime. 
PAT is based on the privacy pass of IETF and has unlinkability. 
Disable captchas in case of valid PAT tokens. 
Brian: Do you track if people leave pages before completing captcha?
M: Yes, we do. Many people just close the page if they get a captcha or any interactive (just click a button).
Borbala: What are the semantics of the tokens? What info do they convey?
M: Does the device link to a real iCloud account.
Borbala: How much do you consider device security and malware?
M: We put a lot of trust in the real devices. This is a new security product. We might be getting less abuse today.  
X: How do the issuer know the client is spending the token ….?
M: Attester is always in the loop.
Steven: How does this compare to Apple device vs the rest of the ecosystem?
Maxime: Most of the abuse comes from servers pretending to be windows or macos, not IOS.
Tommy: There are cases where you do not even see captcha, they are not accounted for.
What share of traffic that does have tokens are bots?
Maxime: No data.
Brian: Interested in challenge solve time. What do we compare it to?
Maxime: Includes captcha creation and users solve time. If you have an Apple device and does not have a token, it does not mean you are bad.
Steven: PAT might have a place in AFCG. Any comparison other attestations to PAT’s Apple device attestation?
Maxime: PAT is integrated inside devices and broadly distributed. Number of tokens issued might be different. 
Brian: PAT attestation is device and user are valid?
Maxime: Yes. 
Brian: Use cases where you do not need that level of assurance. A legacy device that does not have capability to provide PAT. Can it use an app to allow some kind of validation?
Maxime: Multiple issuers are used for various purposes. Other issuers can be created and used for this purpose. Each issuer can have a different contract with the attester.
Tommy: The origins select the issuer. The issuer decides which attesters meet the bar. Clients might decide the attestations they can provide. Privacy Pass Architecture document might be the resource for this.
Philipp: 
Maxime: 
Nick: Is there any additional metadata transferred with the token? 
Maxime: No.
Vinod: How is attestation quality determined?
Maxime: Time will tell.
Vinod: Are you discovering attestation quality over time?
Maxime: Issuance quality is up to issuer.
Borbala: What happens if there are bad devices that have tokens? How to detect/report them?
Maxime: Tokens are blinded. I hope attesters do work on this. 

Trigger Attestation presented by Anthony.
This is an API part of the Privacy Sandbox.
Chris: Question about private metadata. Is private metadata based on real world requirements? Any real world experience that private metadata is useful? 
Anthony: This was a response to invalid traffic needs. 
Charlie: We follow private state token design. It has private metadata. Having a feedback loop of having a token or not is bad. Wanted to avoid it. 
Brian: There are various delays. Any key management issues that might arise?
Anthony: Same approach as Private State Tokens. They can rotate. 
Steven:
Charlie: The gap between issuance and redemption is small, in order of 1 hour. Some other reports might be longer. 
Vinod: When are tokens issued to the client? Who issues them?
Anthony: Tokens are issued by ad tech after IVT detection.
Borbala: How trigger attestation will fit in with other solutions? Are there any other ways for adtech to run IVT?
Anthony: This is composable with other signals. 
Charlie: This proposal ties all the signals in conversion time to report. Many restrictions from the privacy perspective. IVT filter is an online filter, which is limiting. 
