# May 26, 2023

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Web Environment Implementation (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QZCS3jQk04PvXoRpsxhP1o5s26VG7Tu0uA7_dG7mMYw/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sT29YrsyX_Dk3ih9dK6tFadORdZYG0pLCg9gCKkJ8Ms/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Web Environment Integrity Explainer](https://github.com/RupertBenWiser/Web-Environment-Integrity/blob/main/explainer.md)
* [Web Environment Implementation Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1EH5F0D0qU5M_cLA_bfP-Mb-XBMDj36fG4L8IyonbsIs/edit#slide=id.g2258310cac2_0_0)
* [Web Environment Implementation Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VuAEusnmVcndZkR0FhLgWCYNLRwu2j7XtWUd7nZZEKk/edit#heading=h.6rb4a5lqb7uf)

## Minutes

Philipp presenting [Web Environment Integrity Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1EH5F0D0qU5M_cLA_bfP-Mb-XBMDj36fG4L8IyonbsIs/edit#slide=id.g2258310cac2_0_409)
Tommy asks a clarifying question: Difference between intermediate token and prefetching a bucket of tokens from attester. Why do we need intermediate tokens instead of prefetching a bucket of tokens? Is there a difference?
Philipp: Why not get a bunch of device integrity tokens and use those? 
Borbala: What we’re trying to fix is to make the resulting token bound - if we just do pre-fetching, we don’t know how to bind the intermediate token to the challenge.
Tommy: You want to make sure that the token that you’re redeeming is related to the challenge, but that’s all happening in the client?
Borbala: There’s an assumption that in the time of the attestation, we know the state of the device. There may be future local checks, but not the same at the deep checks that happen with the slow attestation.
 \Tommy: What are the attacks we are preventing by challenge binding, instead of having a prefetched DIT?
Borbala: We translate into request binding. IT’s are request bound.
 \Tommy: What are we specifically preventing when we do the translation from IT to EIT
Borbala: The EIT is request-bound, so prevented from replays, watering hole attacks.
Tommy: You could have one device that is trying to harvest tokens ask many other devices that have tokens - so requires many other devices online to harvest tokens.
Brian: It seems both of these methods have virtues and down sides. I am not sure why we should select only one. We can use both.
Philipp: What is the duality of methods? 
Brian: Allow devices to have cached tokens / minting tokens on-device and bound to context
Borbala: +1, the goal is to make it fast. Network round trip does not fit into the budget. The design eliminates the network trip. +1 for the use cases where latency is not the issue.  
Brian: conversely, there may be use cases that you’re not concerned about linking to a specific request, and just want to make sure that this is a valid client
Philipp: There might be some implications for rate limiting, if it is possible to re-use tokens. Request binding makes this harder. 
Steven: Does reporting means IT’s are not masked to the attester? 
Philipp: The IT and DIT should not be linkable outside of the issuer, full stop. The issuer should expect to receive the IT, and be able to send the tokens where there are issues.
Chris: This is a bit premature (referring to performance). I am not convinced that we need answers that fast. It is difficult for me to evaluate without understanding the threat model. If in between DIT and IT the client is compromised what does IT have? I suggest we move forward (referring to continuing the presentation to understand the threat model?)
Philipp: Think it would be useful to compare use cases for Privacy Pass v what we’re proposing here. We do plan to follow up with a threat model and that may be a good point to continue this discussion
Brian May: Hardening issuers (TEE, MPC) Does this protect from the government requesting information? Or just from attackers? 
Philipp: The info in the issuer will map the activity over some time interval, so a government may be able to coerce the mapping. But need to think through the blast radius – if one has a long-running tab that may also be significantly more harmful than a snapshot in time.
Borbala: Also possible to introduce a device ID that could be translated back, but only the issuer could do that translation. Also issuer doesn’t need to see the real-world ID of the relying party
Brian: Let’s not count on securing the compute environment as securing the data. Can we get definitions for issuer, attester, etc in the proposal.
Philipp: [the doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VuAEusnmVcndZkR0FhLgWCYNLRwu2j7XtWUd7nZZEKk/edit#heading=h.6rb4a5lqb7uf) has definitions for each, but comments are open and if the definitions there are insufficient, please leave a comment and we can expand
Brian: When you talk about testing something like this - how much dependency is there on attesters being ready for this testing?
Philipp: Plan is to start with the attesters we know best on Android, but if others are interested in being attesters, let’s talk soon! Would be great to get additional attesters into the picture soon
Tommy: Wanted to comment on deployment. I really want  to urge us do it in a way that will be interopable. It seems we are creating parallel worlds. The overall architecture are of the same thing (refers to PST, PAT, PP). What is described here sounds like Privacy Pass. Please define a new experimental token type and register it through Privacy Pass. It will be an official experimental type. Both Steven and Scott are working on that. Mainly, please collaborate with you colleagues to make sure that we have a comprehensible menu of tokens. Hopefully we do not have 3 different ways to get the same thing. 
Philipp: Would like to dive into that more – there are some cosmetic differences, but some of the things that would be more helpful to understand are around the feedback model. Could be a really helpful convo to understand what the debug flow looks like. 
Tommy: That gets into the details. I am less concerned about that. It is more on the actual format of defining challenge and token. Different interactions an origin has to do. Origin can say I support this type and that. An origin working with three different types would be hard. Essentially, let’s have a chat on the interoperability.
Chris: Supportive of doing experiments to understand how this feedback loop is useful. I want to test this out and test if it’s useful. Would be great to use the same protocols, and seems very possible using the privacy pass protocol. To the chairs: would be great if we could do a breakout to figure out how to take this idea and put it on top of PRivacy Pass
Brian: I want to echo Chris and Tommy. A protocol standardized around attestation would be valuable. A common way to define roles and engage around attestation that serve various use cases.
Steven: Agree that a side meeting where we do a conversation about how to map these things. There may be questions for the chairs in Privacy Pass if they’re willing to support tokens that are unblindable.
Chris: Don’t think that’s an issue. We’re talking about a different token type (in PP scheme). If there’s a genuine use case, then it’s incumbent on the IETF to work on that thing. Rate limiting is a good example.
Tommy: Agree with Chris, want to add some nuance - this might not be something that gets to IETF consensus, but that isn’t required for getting into the registry (specification). We should separate out the principles of the ppl who want to come to consensus of IETF v. what is useful for the ecosystem. We shouldn’t allow  token type interoperability to not happen because of perceived IETF concerns
Bhanu: Have you thought about how you could quickly iterate through device integrity signals? It’s hard to know which signals will work well in order to detect IVT
Philipp: We did an exercise a few months ago to gather capabilities - that’s probably a good list to go to eventually. At the first blush, probably some rate limiting – and a lot of things on the list have their own complexity (malware, automation). Eventually we may be able to create separate swim lanes to run different signals in different experiments.
Michael: For rate limiting use case - if there are 100 attestable UAs in the world – would that allow a single device to amplify an attack by 100x? Or would the counters be tracked in a cross-UA way through standardisation/coordination?
Philiipp: Figuring out how to prevent sharding across UAs is important. We don't’ have that mechanism yet, but we need to develop a design on that. Should think about it as we get to getting more crisp on the issuer.
Borbala: fundamental question about how we do rate limiting. If you do rate limiting across UAs hitting the same origin, we need to discuss the pros and cons to discuss the granularity of the sharding.