# June 9, 2023

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Chrome GeoIP (30 mins)
* Open Discussion (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GaVSYo_815aG5izRGmwLZTl8wbbOun2FiXCGH6FbG-Q/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BJa0uh-wwfmRH_qugO2b9r_VIEf9l0Uzj5vr23YYhcY/edit?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-iaeeQvkc2X2PV-P30BKK0g)
* [Chrome GeoIP Explainer](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/blob/master/Explainer-GeoIP.md)
* [Chrome GeoIP Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17X0U1eszO-RjvbgA4z809lYd9mFF94PdDyUGBlRrEAo/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes

Discussion:
Brian May - How did you arrive at the 1M cookies number and can you share it? Why are you using cookies which identifies the number of browsing sessions – I assume the important thing is to identify how re-identifiable ppl are in the real world.
Scott: We need a mapping we can use globally, and Census data is not universally available and updated often enough. We are interested in population on the internet, and we want to take into account how the population moves between different metro areas.
Brian: We’re talking about mapping IP to geo - your ability to tell if I’m in a certain geo is relatively small. And if I’m a city with large size, I’ll get mixed in with that city's population.
Scott: One example is the city of Moscow, where the entire city is essentially one large municipality. So using census breakdowns isn’t fine grained enough. Do understand the concerns about how dynamic this needs to be – and it’s important to be transparent about how these mappings evolve.
Brian: Who owns these mappings and how does that get governed?
Scott: that would be Google

Wendy: Raises questions about digital redlining and possibly reinforcing discrimination. 
Scott: Good question and this mapping only makes things more coarse than what is available today. We’ve published the GeoIP for UX/MX/CA and would love feedback on this areas because it’s something we’re concerned about as well
Aram: Why the precision v. mapping against the IP’s nearest understood Geo? Can a user choose to move into a different location? (Why not just map IPs to the closest geo commonly mapped to the IP? Or the Apple methodology with Private Relay? Can users choose?)
Scott: Let me jump to next slide - the output is simply the country, state, city (same as what Apple provides). At this level, the boarders melt away. These IPs are also more noisy - especially with mobile IPs.
Aram: If I live in a city that comes in under the population pool size, boise, for example - does that mean everyone in Idaho is mapped to Boise?
Scott: Our goal is to maintain a 1M person mapping. But we’re never going to cross national borders. In the US, most of the states are represented in full. But for states <1M, there may be larger error bars. We are also maintaining time zones.
Aram: Would everyone in the state boundary be mapped to the most populous city
Scott: It’s likely that the user would be mapped to the closest point on the map
Brendan: Is there a plan to be transparent about the political borders? Thinking from advertising context - gambling, for example
Scott: Point of difficulty. The current IP mappings we are getting have a lot of error bounds, even the ones we rely on for compliance today. Remains a best effort.
Brendan: Understand the errors, I’m mostly worried about the transparency issue.
Scott: We will not allow users to hop out of their country to the best of our ability.
Owen: You will have breakage, but the concern from advertisers is betting, yes, financial services also. But it’ll be hard for advertisers to say “we’re using the best information we have to address this.” Known and unknown errors are different.
Brian: We have relationships with people who provide us with this data. Now Google is taking responsibility for geoIP, are they taking legal liability. 
Scott: Can’t speak to the liability angle.
Ane: We think that ultimately it’s the responsibility of the user of the data to use the data responsibly. We don’t think the data provided here is significantly different than what is on the market now. There’s a good point here around the known v. unknown error rate - let us take that back. But we’re also maintaining some consistency across state lines, etc, to ensure folks can comply with state and local laws.
Brian: Has chrome considered other tools for us to determine where a user is?
Scott: Thanks, this is an area that deserves more attention.
Shubhie: We are here to understand if we are meeting the basic requirements for the problem we are trying to solve here (notably the loss of Geo when we hide IP addresses from known trackers).
Tommy: Thanks for sharing this - want to clarify: while you have GeoIP DB, for the actual selection of IP selection, it’s more granular, but there isn’t a more granular grouping published. So, you pointed out that we only see the city on the map, but everyone in a populous borough of NYC, for example, if a user shared precise location  - would the server be able to make an inference about the other ppl within that population. Could you infer more precise geo information?
Scott: Probably not, we are only guaranteeing that users fall into sufficiently large geo buckets, which are subject to change. Maybe in the moment but that information would not be durable.
Tommy: I’m not sure why we need it for the 3P tracking case. When we do this for apple, the trackers have time zone and country, but that’s it and everything works fine.
Ryan: (can use cases that need to differentiate between mobile/residential/commercial/datacenter IPs be preserved?)
Scott: No, you’ll only see the google ip. Not any underlying information.
Aram: If I’m a user, can I select a different specific location? Or can I say “put me anywhere, as long as I’m not where I am”
Scott: We don’t have plans to allow users to select different locations
Ryan: Any plans to keep datacenters from using these proxies to make sure that data centers and residential IPs are different.
Scott: We haven’t published anything yet, it’s something we are aware of
Kevin: This would be a huge blow to Anti-fraud. For this to not be devastating to anti-abuse capabilities as a whole - will need to be very careful. The datacenter distinguishing bit may be helpful, as one. For example, icloud uses “account in good standing” plus hardware attestation to make sure that there’s an actual apple device, which is sufficient so far to ensure it isn’t abused in our experience.
Scott: We definitely don’t want to operate an open proxy, and we’ll have more information on this forthcoming.
Owen: Flagging datacenter traffic is a requirement for MRC impression tracking. It needs to be client initiated and not a server
Scott: Thanks
Harshad: From the diagram, looks like if there is a bid request, there will be an actual request. For the 6 states that have population <6M, it may give a different state than the proxy
Eric: Wanted to bring up another concept - is there a need beyond IP geo where we’d want to show actual IP of geo device, have an attester corroborate the geo. Could be something to explore as we explore device-backed signals.
Scott: Something like an attested location may be good to look at.
Chris: You mentioned that geos will evolve over time. Will they be known externally. Especially as people pop between geos, it may be a long-term information leak.
Scott: This is something we’ve thought about a lot and is something we want to prevent. Consistent geo hopping does make you a lot more identifiable.
Ryan: Another anti-abuse question - one concern I have about the abuse of the proxies. Even if you do deter datacenter use, there may be residential botnet proxies that could still be problematic
Scott: We don’t have anything to share yet but it is definitely a concern.
Ryan: How does Google plan to make decisions about which host will be proxied? What constitutes a 3rd party tracker?
Scott: We are not ready to share that information yet.
Steven: There are a lot of antifraud problems in the IP space. Fraudulent actors using these IP Privacy solutions to do harm. Would be good to get other folks with their own proxies to talk about their solutions.
Brendan: At what point do we push the responsibility up through you (apple and google)? At some point, this is a business decision for apple and google to react to user demand for privacy. One second order effect may be that we limit the ecosystem to those companies who have first party geo data.
Aram: Will some elements on a page get proxied IP and others won't? What is there to prevent different elements on a page from coordinating to expose a users true IP address. Alternatively if this thing is generally acceptable, is there a version of this in the future where some a different proxy could be used?
Scott: That is correct. We haven’t shared specific plans around avoiding coordination yet. Allowing other entities to run their own proxy isn’t something that is in our plans now.
Shubhie: We are being very careful not to cause inadvertent disruption.
Brian: Following up on unintended consequences - every time we take away the data that folks rely on, they’re going to find other ways to get that data. Worried that IP addresses are going to be replaced by more deterministic data. Are there ways we could mitigate that?
Scott: IP address is a very effective tracking vector, not just for geo. To your second point, that is definitely a concern.
Kevin: Want to emphasize the importance of Google taking feedback when it’s being abused. Both in terms of anti-abuse and website operators (bulk creating accounts, etc). I expect there will be a large volume of it.
Scott: Agreed - we want to have more discussions around feedback mechanisms.
Useful links:
And file feedback as issues: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/issues

Please see the full explainer: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/blob/master/Explainer-GeoIP.md


