# August 18, 2023

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* TPAC Schedule (10 mins)
* Storage Partitioning (15 mins)
* Privacy-Enhanced Revocation (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GP3qSSSqwl_HZIQCG0LUPCw1iwTJoobdWX2UmNWyx-o/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1csM5QcC8uqreUncjYS0lCDGmr4S7By-KvlcNRha8jKI/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Storage Partitioning](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XRJ-5V6Rq9XybIa03NWtqps1y50d8Vf_TG4lpWWpCY4/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Privacy-Enhanced Revocation Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/akakou/privacy-enhanced-revocation-and-view-of-applying-to-web)
  

## Minutes

Michael: We do anti-abuse and anti-automation. All of our collection is first party.

Steven: Please let people in the ecosystem to know about the storage partitioning change. 

Kosei presents their slides (https://speakerdeck.com/akakou/privacy-enhanced-revocation-and-view-of-applying-to-web). 

Borbala: Apple device check allows developer 2 bits per device. Developer might set a bit that sticks. How EPID relates to this type of system? Can you tell a little bit about how that works?

Kosei: First difference between EPID and device check is AFAIK device check needs assumption that we trust execution environment tis secure. EPID doe snot have this assumption. 

Borbala: In systems like device check, if the device is marked bad, it is for the specific developer only. If EPID marks device bad, is it for all relying parties or just a specific one?

Kosei: EPID can apply to multiple services. 

Steven: In system and thread model slide: A single ID is assumed, in web user might have multiple IDs, can just create a new e-mail, etc.

Kosei: 

Steven: EPID should be still required to be tied to some limited resource?

Michael: When each service manages its own revocation list, how to prevent multiple colluding services randomly revoke a key they have not seen and create identifiers for users? 

Kosei: We need limit number of services revocation list. Maybe EPID assumes revocation list has transparency. Signer uses revocation list to create signatures.

Steven: Where is the best place to ask questions? Slack or github proposal repo?

Kosei: Both works.
