# March 29, 2024

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Scrappy: SeCure Rate Assuring Protocol with PrivacY (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mxf1y3PtZBjK8OSQJdrwtM57GO38W16VPYnw3kW-SQg/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11Eh25eYK7fwAFe5QvcyRcmydqCAe2yf2B_jA8vZvb8A/edit?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-8Im89DgLyPiZ6MRmsdE_RQ)
* [Scrappy Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/akakou/scrappy-and-view-of-applying-to-web)

## Minutes


Steven: We will have a discussion about Scrappy, and then leave the rest of the time to questions. Next meeting will be a discussion about protected Audiences

Slides: https://speakerdeck.com/akakou/scrappy-and-view-of-applying-to-web

Kosei: 
Looking for rate limiting solutions to mitigate tracking and fraud. 
Scrappy is privacy friendly cryptographic protocol blocking multiple access from individual users within a bounded time window.

Background:
TMP (Trusted Platform Model) is a security hardware chip. Used to protect from side channel attacks.
DAA (Direct Anonymous Attestation) is a privacy friendly signature scheme. Used for remote attestation.

Scrappy has 2 threat models:
1. Rogue signer trying to forge or modify signatures
2. Rogue verifier is trying to track signers


Should scrappy be used on the web?
Provides a rate-limiting solution that resists timing-correlation attacks.
In the paper, scrappy is relying on the TPM unique key, but this limits access to the protocol. It’s therefore deferred to the GM.

Limitations
Length of time windows are constant, since malicious services could use it as a mechanism o track users. GMs can revoke secret keys if they are leaked, but latency will increase proportionally to the size of the revocation list.

Q&A:
Michael Ficarra: Does the GM actively participate in each transaction with the service? is this just pushing the rate-limiting responsibility onto the GM? does DAA necessarily require GM interaction? is there any other way?

Kosei: User accesses GM once per user registration. 

Michael Ficarra: How often does joining happen?

Steven: Are there portions of the security requirements that are still valid if we cant assume a trusted hardware? You have smart phone listed on one of the slides, is that a software token or using the hardware TPM on the smart phone?

Kosei: TPM isn’t required to use scrappy, any unique resource could be used (like a phone number). 
Per: Can you please explain a bit more about the GM: who the GM is and what role does the GM serve? In real life what are some examples of who would be the GM?

So we would need someone in the industry to take the role as GM and provide that service?

Kosei: GM is any third party.

Per: What is the benefit to the GM? What is their motivation?

Kosei: 

Per: What is the availability of this hardware?

Michael: They are widely available on devices manufactured in the last 10 years.

Steven: Do we have a definition of what the user pseudonym is? You’ve referenced TPMs and phone number. Maybe IP would work?

Per: If the pseudonym is provided by the user, can the user lie? How does the verifier know that two requests with different pseudonyms are from the same user?

Kosei: If the pseudonyms are different, the GM cannot tell that they are the same. The resource needs to be scarce enough that a user cannot reliably net more.

Per: How if the GM is bad actor - they will see the pseudo identifier?

Kosei: The GM sees the pseudonym, but cannot connect it to traffic on the verifier, so they cannot track users.

Per: Seems like even if the GM is bad, they cannot collude with verifiers to track users.

Kosei: That is right.

Per: Will the end user have to do anything like choosing a GM?

Kosei: No

Michael Ficarra: is there any reason not to use TPM endorsement keys for this? just concerns about unavailability of TPMs on some devices?

Kosei: Yes, it’s just a concern about the availability of TPMs. 

Steven: We’ve had other TPM based solutions proposed to the AFCG. Availability is one concern, but TPMs may be less open and negatively impact the web ecosystem (less support from browsers and vendors). 

Send feedback & questions to the proposal!
https://github.com/antifraudcg/proposals/issues/21 
