# May 10, 2024

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Protected Audience API + Fenced Frame  (30 mins)
* DiStefano - Tech Deep Dive (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UIYKSG21_mSmsqBwvFe7v-OEoeaD_-JI0PwvdpSmZLw/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AwseedEiwKhwFRV5cDwR4FPV4F4XrxQDcReELvql8_c/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Protected Audience API Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XSPz6VlXEtNNkvhMNM0_IZGR1ie4CUb8GZzKUZHK1Gg/edit#slide=id.p)
* [DiStefano Paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1063)
* [DiStefano Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OosApfwpSDhMHHx7VLdmYrJKDqcuBNhVzR3En8y_Yeg/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes

Steven provides intros and overview of the agenda.

Protected Audience API + Fenced Frames presentation
Paul: Protected Audience is a privacy sandbox web API meant to provide remarketing without tracking user behavior.  3PCD makes remarketing harder, so this is a replacement technology which is more private.

What is remarketing? It is the act of marketing to people on other sites who previously visited your site.

Examples of remarketing - a user is on really cool car dot com, and the car company wants to remind the user later via ads.  Today uses cookies, but will walk through how PA works. 

Join-add-interest group allows advertisers to record in users’ browsers that they are interested in different things, typically done by a DPS.  Can use trusted bidding signal urls for later in bidding.

Later on, you could be reading a news site that wants to get revenue from their large audience. Protected audience can help choose ads to embed on those sites based on the interest groups in protected audiences. The second half is run-ad-auction, which loads all of the interest groups that a user was joined to, and loads the javascript attached to each group for calculating bids and ads. The seller then has a choice to score all of those ads/bids. The browser then picks the highest bid. The url is opaque to prevent information leaked to the publisher, but the ad is rendered on page.

Diagram of the workflow described above, step by step.

Manuel: Do the DPSs at any point know all of the joined groups the browser uses? For example “electronics, flowers, cars…”

Paul: Privacy sandbox as a whole of partitioning users identity on different sites, much like cookies. Each interest group comes from one website, and when it comes to bidding and auction, they are bidding individually. So they don’t see a holistic picture.

Manuel: If 2 DSPs use the same interest group, they won’t match because they are different domains?

Paul: Right, when we set an interest group we set an owner, and they are partitioned by (owner, domain).

Hadi: In terms of the real time signals, what parameters do the DSPs or SSPs receive to work with additional logic. 




Paul: on the buy side, the bidder’s real time signals fetch a set of keys about that interest group, and can be sent in the RTB signal request.  Also include the hostname of the site. 

Paul: moving onto threats.  Money is a strong motivation for threats.  These are similar to what can happen today.  Fake sites, users paid to click, malicious browser extensions etc.  Generally extensions could block but not modify, likely does not add to the risk.  Modified browsers and root certificate stores could do all sorts of things. Invalid auction reports can also trick them into paying or receiving money that otherwise shouldn’t happen.

We can break down different types of fraud:

Invalid interest group joins.   
To prevent this, the origin of attempting to add someone to an interest group must match the owner
Invalid + impersonated advertiser pages. 
Lots of existing techniques work for identifying impersonated advertiser pages, we’re not really changing the logic around the joining.

There are a lot of places where interest groups can be used to encode and pass along trust signals, which can later be used during bidding or ad selection.

Invalid auctions - 
Could impersonate a seller.  The seller scripts must match the origin, makes it hard to impersonate without modified browser or compromised root certificate

Impersonating a publisher 
We provide browser signals like topFrameHostname to buyers and sellers. 
Buyers get access to the interest group they put on the browser before. 
Similarly the seller gets to see their auction configuration
Buyers should not engage with sellers they don’t trust, and vice versa

Invalid ad slots
Protected audiences is not modifying the code around the HTML tag on the page that initiates the auction, so existing detection mechanism for reasonable auctions should still work there.

Invalid bids - impersonating buyer
Unmodified browser - same origin requirement with interest group owner, i.e. TLS verifies they come from buyer
Modified browser - You could do all sorts of things like submitting large bids or spending competitors' budgets. In practice would have to modify a lot of browsers to do anything at scale, which is challenging/detectable. At that point there are more high-value attacks available (like sensitive credential theft).

Sam: Why is it considered difficult to create a lot of modified browsers?

Paul: Compared to attacks that might be easier, setting up a fraudulent website for example, are cheaper and simpler than paying people to create a botnet of modified browsers. And to make your bids look reasonable, the fraudulent profit is fairly tiny relative to effort.

Sam: What if you are trying to drain a competitor's budget?

Paul: this is something we are aware of and thinking through, but it still requires a lot of coordination to pull off without detection.

No sooner than 2026 we are going to enforce that the ad impressions will be rendered in Fenced Frames.

Feedback? Would love to hear about other attacks that folks have heard of or are interested in.

Shivani: Hi everyone, I’m working on Fenced Frames. I’ll go over what they are and how they can be used to prevent fraudulent impressions. It is essentially an API that we have built to create a strong boundary between the page and the embedded content, which may have some cross site data that should not be joined to publisher.

In protected audience, there is a winning ad that has to be rendered, and has a URL. That URL has to be stored in interest groups, essentially cross site data that has to be stored in the browser. You can imagine that the interest group itself is cross site data, so the URL has to be hidden from the publisher page, and also need for the user identity to be hidden from the ad itself.

Threat Model: We don’t have any joining from the embedding page and the fenced frame (users interest group)

User Privacy threat model: Cross site data from embedding site and fenced frame cannot be joined with browser and exfiltrated. For example, timing attacks.

Diagram for PA with fenced frames, walking through information flow, and what data publisher has vs fenced frame has. 

There is a caveat. We have client side separation between the embedding page and the fenced frame, but there is an API called (...) which breaks that separation.  Use cases dependent on this would need privacy preserving replacements longer term.

FFAR(Fenced Frame Ad Reporting) - Can join data between what’s available in the auction and the fenced frame, effectively preserving event level data for short to medium term. Use cases dependent on this would need privacy preserving replacements longer term.

Brian: Would it be accurate to think of the Fenced Frame as a separate tab in the browser.

Shivani: Yes, that’s an accurate analogy.

Invalid traffic detection in an ad.
Signals from user behavior (click timing, click location)
Available from inside the fenced frame in outgoing network requests
Available in top-level navigation url
Can be joined with auction side of things (FFAR)
Signals about the embedding page 
Not available inside the FF
Info from the user agent (connection type, IP address)
Available inside the FF, except in the case of ip proxying
Signals about the frame itself
Intersection Observer is supported
Caution required about potential abuse, we have metrics we’ll monitor and may or may not need additional mitigations
Explainer goes into additional detail

Feedback?

Hadi: How does Google think about limiting network activity within fenced frames to mitigate threats of data exfiltration, while still supporting abuse prevention mechanisms which rely on a myriad of signals.

Shivani: We are continuing to look at network joining to see if it is an issue. We’re also looking at mitigations where IVT functions may have additional access. 

Hadi: What was the reason behind the decision to disable untrusted networks? Could this be abused to disallow IVT vendors to send out their signals.

Shivani: Follow up questions on the threat, given billing events wouldn’t go out either, so is it a risk?


Hadi: It depends on the timing. Typically IVT or measurement signals are sent out throughout the bidding session. Those signals typically get stronger towards the end.

Steven: pushing back the DiStefano preso 

Brian: Are there limits on who can call a FF, or initiate a FF. Take opaque URLs from a context and make it look like a bunch of ads are being displayed.

Shivani: There aren’t any restrictions on that.

Brian: Can FF be reused? They are opaque to the embedding context, so I could create 100 of them and configure them to indicate that an ad was shown.

Shivani: What is the specific threat you are thinking of?

Brian: I’m concerned that I can use the opacity of the FF to do a lot of stuff, like hiding the fact that one browser is generating tons of ads. 

Paul: with event level data, you would be able to see how many ads were generated per auction and should be able to detect if there are more ads than auctions. 

Manuel: Two things. You mentioned that everybody can render a FF using the proper config. As far as I tested, this is no longer the case, to render a FF I needed the attestation file in the proper domain. For example, I need to open an IFrame pointing to a domain that has the attestation on file to then render a FF.

Shivani: Attestation requirement is only for the Protected Audiences API. Just creating the FF, there is no requirement. There is a src config you can use for testing if you don’t want to use PA initially. 

Manuel: My testing was with shared storage, but I will retest. Tyvm

Brian: The intent is for FF (in a PA context) to always be created by the protected audience flow. The publisher page isn’t involved?

Brian: The page owners level of interaction is that they start the protected audience flow, and they generate the FF from that?

Shivani: Yes.

Steven: where should we provide feedback

Shivani: the two repos are great, fenced frames and protected audiences.  Thank you


Steven: we’re pushing back the DiStefano presentation to the next session. Poll on f2f meeting for TPAC. 







