# June 21, 2024

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* DiStefano - Tech Deep Dive (30 mins)
* Anonymous Profile Age Protocol (30 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Yt-GIZdSGOmxWKssfv9LT6ER4ggFlie87h07tj1Rvio/edit)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kQ9Fp1EtEDQkspaV7k8UUPJXO2iGZVoqgveMYMCOXMY/edit?usp=sharing)
* [DiStefano Paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1063)
* [DiStefano Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OosApfwpSDhMHHx7VLdmYrJKDqcuBNhVzR3En8y_Yeg/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Anonymous Profile Age Protocol Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1IgNRhtV_jEM7KHRO4P0QAzgvjyYWqYBnzSj_0ToTIpY/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes

TPAC in Anaheim 9/23-9/27: Wednesday breakout sessions and Thursday AFCG meeting
https://tinyurl.com/afcg-tpac24-initial

Full schedule: https://www.w3.org/2024/09/TPAC/schedule.html

DiStefano

Several companies in the web3 space are interested in these protocols. This also has a relationship to anti-fraud. We want to prove something, usually the problem is that we want to prove that we know something, but don’t want to prove this in the clear (for privacy and replayability reasons). Instead, we want to convince some 3P that we know something, which can then vouch for us. Think ZKP.

Traffic that is sent over TLS includes significant trusted information about users behind the traffic - age, social security status, etc. This has provenance and privacy concerns, but can also convey information - i.e. a user is connected to a bank, and can prove that they have a bank balance over some amount. We don’t want to reveal this in the clear, but we want to be able to prove the truth of some assertion to a third party.

Designated-Commitment TLS (CGTLS) allows exporting claims over the TLS channel to a designated verifier. During handshake, we secret-share some information to a designated third party. DECO and TLSNotary/PageSigner are two prime examples here.

However these have limitations, focused on lower versions of TLS (not 1.3), have efficiency concerns, lack client privacy (secret sharing aspects of TLS conveys the server the client is usign, DiStefano uses ring signatures instead), etc - DiStefano attempts to address these limitations.

(DCTLS walk-through)

Handshake phase - client and verifier learn shares of session params using a series of 2PC functionalities
Query Phase - 
.
ZK / selective opening phases - Once messages in the query phase have been received, sent, and committed, various session internal facts (proof of identity, value, etc) can be proven in ZK. Future work is needed to efficiently create these proofs for specific structures.

Implemented in BoringSSL, <1s and <= 5KiB to execute the online phase.
Future work: Interesting from the side of AF - we can relay signals that a client is not a bot. What other types of proofs / assertions do we need to accommodate?

Ian Jacobs: From web payments perspective, issuing banks want to re-identify users between payments - usually this a device binding problem. In your description, you said that want to make attestations that this person is honest.
Sofia: You can create additional proofs outside of the TLS layer as well. Usually you want to prove something to a third-party verifier - but we’re still looking for a good framework to make this useful in a distributed way
Ian: Currently there’s a call to a back-end server that attempts to re-identify the user. Often uses fingerprinting, but Fido/2FA keys are also used. Would the bank in this case also be the verifier?
Sofia: Currently we are trying to limit ourselves to a single assertion, multiple assertions 
Sam: How do you instantiate these proofs in boringSSL?
Sofia: We use rust boringSSL, since most libraries using ZKP use.
Brian May: Clarify the relationship between user and verifier
Sofia: Their roles are similar, but the verifier acts as a third party. Only client has full access to session keys, verifier is an entity that exists outside that can verify his claim.
Brian: When verifying claims, you need to know something about the client -what relationship is assumed? 
Sofia: The secret share initiates this understanding, and from this we can generate specific proof.

Anonymous Profile Age Protocol

This riffs on issue 15 on the AFCG github repo, requesting attestation of device lifetime. We’re thinking about profile age (to allow for resettability) instead of devices. Conventionally this was done with 3PCs - the cookie contains a timestamp, but this is a cross-site identifier (especially if the time is very granular)

First try at anon approach: Write the timestamp into local storage; server picks threshold of age that it trusts; UA constructs proof that time T < threshold and shares with server.

Security problem: Signature can be distributed without accountability, proving this for other not-old clients. 

Second try: Adding anonymous rate limiting (in each epoch, the UA can only create so many things it is trying to prove (tracked by counter C). At redemption, the client derives epoch E from current time and sends token Q=PRF(N||E||C) and proof P. Server keeps a database to reject duplicate redemptions derived from the same C|N|E.

(Pausing to take questions)

Brian May: You’re using rate limiting so that a client cannot request more than X number of times - what if they create multiple relationships with the server.
Sam: Inherited this from cookie age, we can counter this by controlling issuance and looking for outliers.

Future work: We could have more complicated predicates (currently we are testing for outliers in continuous variables). Also, we could have proofs about multiple signed payloads (e.g. profile age AND activity level)
