# October 25, 2024

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Analysis of Residential Proxies (30 mins)
* TPAC Recap (15 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tk9w1Fd5GEqlTakcm21GYQxGBBKMA8Xyi_WsnbOWdFI/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eBILQ8lGeImdNXYJ59-YzJsjjwbfS5MWz4JFwvN-Hqo/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Analysis of Residential Proxie Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-sVE_DbnCkT_Ye-FjAAn05Lndq6UakckFVSmEuZInFQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes
~~Analysis of Residential Proxies~~
Benjamin - 
Outlining what a residential proxy is, what proxy providers are out there, how they source their IP addresses, affiliations, and big picture.

A proxy is a middle man, forwarding traffic from the client upstream to destination.
Proxy Types: Anonymous, Transparent, datacenter, Residential, Mobile
Market is massive
BrightData (residential 72M+, datacenter 770k)
OxyLabs (100M+ residential), Soax, IPRoyal, Rayobyte, Smartproxy, Webshare

What does “ethically sourced” mean?
You didn’t read the TOS
SDKs
BrightSDK
Pawns App
Bandwidth for cache: honeygain
Directly approach ISPs to offer $$
Blatant fraud
Credential stuffing, malware, Fraud targeting ISP level, refunding, ad fraud
IPs sourced through any mean

911 Proxy was hacking vulnerability routers and using free VPN installs. 
These proxies market themselves as startups.

How big are these proxy pools? (advertise between 10M - 100M IPs)
20M+ combined pool size from top providers in the month of September

Highest offending ISPs:
TELEFONICA BRASIL
Bharti Airtel Limited, etc

Brazil has the highest total residential proxy IPs, followed by the US and India. On a per-capita basis the data looks different: Uruguay, Morocco, Jordan all above 10%.

How to detect residential proxies:
Inject and hook forward function
Assume clients are controlled by the prober
Flag IPs

Can find a lot of pools with doing port scans. 

Concluding thoughts
Residential proxies are responsible for a lot of fraud, but you would prefer not to block the user IP
Blending in among a sea of traffic
Pool sizes are considerably smaller than claimed

Questions:
Steven; Have you done any analysis of the sizes of proxy pools over time?

Benjamin: It fluctuates. For example when 911 was seized there was a significant drop in traffic. There is a general trend upwards over time.

Scott: Can you share the methodology for deciding what IPs are assigned to what country?

Benjamin: Using maxmind databases. Certain countries have problematic coverage.

Brian: What level of churn are you seeing in these pools? What is the half-life? 

Benjamin: If it’s malware it won’t churn often, but much more so for mobile traffic. So it depends on the provider and the type of proxy.

Philipp: Mentioned payment as a recruitment vector. Any trends in IP capture methodologies right now?

Benjamin: Mobile apps with proxyware installed are huge right now. 

Philipp: Anyone being paid to install malware on users’ devices?

Benjamin: That does exist, there is a lot of shady dealing.

Brian: Sounds a lot like the adware market of the early 2000s. Paying people to install malicious software. Are you seeing competition wherein one proxy provider is trying to take over the footprint of another proxy provider?

Benjamin: It’s pretty common for multiple of these proxies to be running on the same device. They will pay to have their own android app made and then bundled.

Brian: Does multiple proxies per device provide an identifiable fingerprint?

Benjamin: Sometimes you will see hundreds of UAs on an IP address.

~~TPAC Recap~~
Steven: Split into 3 parts. Presentations by the various browsers, followed by a presentation about shared storage.

Chrome folks talked about active investments and focus
+Private state tokens
+Client / cookie age
+ZKPs
+Trusted Servers

Mozilla creating a distinction between fingerprinting for antifraud vs tracking. Hopefully there is a compromise affording moderate utility for antifraud while almost none for tracking.

Private browsing 2.0: Link tracking protection, blocking network traffic to known trackers. 

Human device age presentation
+Most legitimate publishers have balanced device distribution
+Sus websites see a lot of clients younger than 10 days

IP Protection: Need to determine what type of IP is connecting to the proxy, and what region they are from.
