# December 6, 2024

## Logistics

12-1 PM EST / 9-10AM PST / 5-6PM GMT

## Agenda

* Fraud in Web Payments (45 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U2hnxf0nZ0OSNF6bGxPPCq7pa_XSoMzbeqRNIWFNUEY/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oFt1TRy5O2BgJ0zfinVUVEDP8QfiuRW9QHHqzFBzjac/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Payments Fraud](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qxiGuKfwl8URcxAcG4ajm_3zH5xm9PBv/view?usp=sharing)

## Minutes
Gerhard from Entersekt presenting Payment Fraud.

Payment is a big problem and global. Unfortunately mobile apps provide better signals compared to the browser.

Brian: Is this from a fraudulent payment perspective?
Top 3 social engineering are romance, investment (sometimes both together) and bank or police impersonation. 

Gerhard: 
About ⅓ of Americans report being a victim of fraud in the last year. Though it can be under reported because of shame. $362 billion globally over the next 5 years! 485.6 billions in scams&Schemes.

Some platforms turning off internet (indicates browsers) banking because of the volume of fraud and inability to protect customers. Mobile apps have more signals and are preferred if possible.

EU and UK, 2FA is already in place and fraud remains a significant challenge. CNP and Unauthorized access related fraud are falling, but it reflects (in part) a fall in the proportion of adults using internet banking.

Brian: Are folks also tracking instances of fraud by different channels?
Gerhardt: Value and # cases in the linked slideshow. Mobile has shot up. Authorized push payment fraud cases, users willingly moving money out of their accounts because they believe some falsified story of urgency, have gone up in frequency, but the $$ amounts have gone down.

Brian: Would it be accurate that fraud cases are going up and amounts are going down because users are being targeted instead of larger institutions? 

Gerard: That does seem to be a trend.

Romance Scams compromised 70000 people in 2022 with reported losses of 1.3 billion. $5.9 billion lost to investment fraud, up dramatically over the last 5 years.

SMS fishing scams often linked to a real shipment are quite common. Attack is through a web link.

Highest risk activities: credential update & recovery, endpoint linking, tokenization of cards 

Evolution of fraud: Phishing -> MiTM -> Vishing -> APP Fraud

Adding extra signals might help with the physical theft. There is a lot a mobile device provides and a browser lacks. Apple has done recent changes to signal device is stolen.

Q&A

Philipp: APP fraud is on the rise. Some of the countermeasures might be invasive. Has there been any research on how people respond to interventions?

Gerhard: Pixel announced OS level support for features like this (listening to phone calls and flagging likely fraud). Generally users are appreciative after they are protected from fraud, though there is an ‘uncanny valley’. Market & demographics are important, in South Africa there is a culture of “always challenge”. 

Brian: What do we do to prevent users from getting abused by the institutions themselves (through use of AF signals)? 

Gerhard: Users sharing more entropy could be used for targeting, but certain features aren’t necessarily miss-usable (think a button that cannot be pressed by javascript). We should try to look for things that don’t lead to privacy leakage first.

Brian: Is there a way to provide the user that they are in a special situation and collecting some extra signals are OK?

Gerhard: Absolutely, a big ‘payment’ bar! Not UX advice, but there is room for more visible signals.

Brian: Do these capabilities require support from the OS as well? 

Gerhard: Adding crypto chips would help, these types of measures take time. Signals around OS age, last device reset, etc. Not an easy problem, needs lots of sensitivity and trust. 

Steven: Curious about location clustering. If your phone is in an unusual area of the city, is that a signal that the phone is possibly stolen?

Gerhard: Most of it these days is to check your known area, probability of travel. City is easy, can be used in the display to the user. 

Ian: My take from the joint meeting with web payments and AFCG. Two main uses of IP are (1) as a proxy for physical location (2) the case of a subpoena. Can we find a privacy protecting way for these signals?

Gerhard: Need secondary signals too, detecting headless browsers, etc. It’s important to know if the device has been compromised. Current systems rely on IP address, fingerprinting and some use of cookies. 

Brian: Was mentioned that banks are shutting down browser support, is there movement toward limiting browser-based transaction amounts to minimize impacts vs shutting it down altogether? 

Gerhard: There will be cases where secure actions have to be done in mobile apps. Not a great experience. Frustrates the client. 

Ian: Would like to bring UPI to the web (I think an Indian bank?). There is a big reason for this. I feel there are a few things that are strongly valuable, this device has changed recently, setting etc. This is valuable. Is AFCG doing anything that would help Gerhard?

Steven: We do not have any concrete but plans to bring things soon. Some proposals from Human. There might be more to discuss signals from the OS. 





