 # November 18, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EST / 9-10AM PST / 5-6PM GMT

## Agenda

* IP Privacy and Anti-Fraud (30 mins)



## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PTkFXrfH-JIrv3cX71pELXmc0W8WBX6oaqPAP6_RawY/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CtmKGmR4dhiL9ZyBQIx0ISD0wkhBENiiPwqU_WLfr-8/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes

Brian May:
Safari proxies all IP addresses. You have only third party. Who makes the list of third parties? 
Shubhie:
Plan to use ML. 
Tommy:
Safari uses a proxy for third parties by default for everyone. It has a fixed public list of 3P trackers. Same list is used across all devices. 
Brian May:
Clarification question 1 hop vs 2 hop. 
Nick Doty:
Abuse in case of 2 hop. How to detect abuse?
Shubhie:
Use auth tokens for DoS protection.
Nick Doty:
Will sites record abusive users?
Shubhie:
Still exploring anti-abuse mitigations.
Philipp:
I would love to see freedom of association. A site can declare they do not want more traffic from a specific user.
Scott:
Welcome more feedback on this.
Tommy:
We use PAT to alleviate this. The solution is to hardware attestation with tokens. Preventing 3P trackers is easy since the app is a browser? I do not trust a pixel tracker reporting abuse.  
Shubhie: 

Tommy: 
3P tracker proxing has not been a problem so far (for Safari). 3P might decide not to show the ad.
Nick Doty:
No expensive operation for the 3p pixel.
Barbola:
Is lack of malware a part of the attestation? How to limit the damage of malware infected devices?
Shubhie:
It falls under IVT in my mind. It is within the threat model. This is a critical area and we will explore it.
It is very much in our scope. 
Barbola: 
Glad to hear it is in scope.
Brian:
We are changing a subset of basic topology of the internet. I understand the intent. Did you explore the potential implications in abuse? Treating a subclass of people differently might have possible impacts. What if someone is categorized as a tracker by mistake?
Shubhie:
We acknowledge that it won’t be easy. They are formidable challenges. 
Brian:
Did you identified some set of abuses?  
Per:
We should go through the list of abuses created by this group and determine whether this work will impact them. If yes, how do we prevent them?
Shubhie:
Totally agree. 
Philipp:
To Brian’s question. In adition to embedded ads, this work will impact the measurements that are done in 3p contexts. 
Tal:
Compliance concerns for various regions.
Scott:
We will have local IPs. Interested to learn about the specific requirements. 
Steven:
Fraud related IP and geo data falls within the focus of this group. It might fall out of scope if it is a very specific regulatory concern.

Nick Doty: interested to know the specific details of regulatory compliance. Are there conflicting requirements, or just the use case of not providing privacy rights to users outside of a particular jurisdiction?

Brian:
Any ideas on geo-location data specifically on compliance? How to figure out geo compliance and browser location. Who is responsible for that? 
Shubhie:
This is within pur scope, getting geo-IP right.
Brendan:
We need to comply with all requirements for all regions. Some local rules might end up affecting all other regions? Geo portion of this work is extremely important. It should be granular enough. Breaking web monetization for some portions might have a negative effect on the relying parties.
Shubhie:
These concerns are within of the scope and we are aware of them.


Brian:
Where is this work taking place?
Shubhie:
In antifraud CG. Some tech is happening in IETF. Geo-IP can happen here.
Brian:
Should we follow different WG to follow this work?
Shubhie:
We will use antifraud CG for overall updates. 
Steven:
Core work for mitigating antifraud disruptions will happen in antifraud CG. 
Shubhie:
Explainer is almost ready to go. Might get published on Monday. Creating github issues are encouraged. 
Brian:
Can you ping the this group?
Shubhie:
Yes.
Steven:
An e-mail to group list would be fine. 

Biran:
Contact for the survey?
Steven:
Neha is the right person. 
