# December 9, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EST / 9-10AM PST / 5-6PM GMT

## Agenda

* Android Feedback Loops and Integrity Attestation (30 mins)



## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16SCxv5VrS-aZkmXxaIBatECUfMBrBxP_19Im0bYSAtI/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TkAGJ2ovNO2GuvZdD6AUjlI9-bsk9xu80Lr11CpS0J4/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Android Feedback Loops and Integrity Attestation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kK3pjuPuWdZSr_MvI6VVgRXCKwqilzcXH4Kf8ZYs92k/edit?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-6Awb6zVIfL0DvW2E0CQwwQ)

## Minutes

Sofia: Please use the slack for discussion, and there’s an open call for adoption on the list, please respond to it if you have feedback/support.


### [Android Feedback Loops and Integrity Attestation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kK3pjuPuWdZSr_MvI6VVgRXCKwqilzcXH4Kf8ZYs92k/edit?resourcekey=0-6Awb6zVIfL0DvW2E0CQwwQ)

Remi: Here from the Google Device Integrity Android team. When products get big enough, they need feedback to keep them relevant and up to date.

**About Us**

Remi: Our team is called Device Integrity, part of the Privacy, Safety, Security team. Primarily works on protecting the Android ecosystem through integrity APIs. (SafetyNet and Play Integrity being the public APIs).

**One day…**

Remi: Sometimes get reports that good users can’t login or that they’ve found abusers with good attestations. The Device Integrity team then investigates, fixes, and updates the systems to provide integrity.

Remi: Device Integrity is hard, lots of players in the ecosystem. Attackers which are constantly evolving their techniques and tactics, looking for the weakest link. Ecosystem is complicated, hundred and thousands of device types and software/hardware stacks. To keep up, attestation system has to evolve and keep up, with potential for bugs that degrade attestation value. \


False positives - Good users get blocked/affect.

False Negative - Bad actors/abuse that cause issues for the service taking the attestation.

Hard to know when a “good” device is good, and it varies from product to product. For false negatives, if there’s nothing known about the device, it is hard to measure.

**Example 1: Narrow Bug**

Bug that affects a small number of users, where Google Wallet was using integrity signals and breaking for this particular set of user. They weren’t able to use Google Pay, unable to pay for burgers.This bug didn’t trigger on our testing/anomaly detection, even though it was a problem in the real-world.

Problem was growing very slowly which made it hard to identify and mitigate. Minor from the attester point of view, but a massive issue for the users that were experiencing the issue.

Turned out to be a software bug in the attestation, but there are other reasons, software/firmware updates by the OEMs, manufacturing mistakes, integration errors.

**Example 2: New Attacker Technique**

User found a new attack on a fastfood chain using old devices that had a vuln that hadn’t been patched, which allowed the attacker to trick the attestation system on the device to think it was a good device, allowing the attacker to farm coupons for “hamburgers”. Turned into a profit by creating a bot that could be requested for coupons and called out to a farm of old devices to get coupons for free hamburgers. \
 \
In-depth investigation into trying to track down the device class that was being attacked and then investigating issues with those devices was necessary to mitigate the attack.

**Feedback Loop**

Generally, some party submits a report about abuse they’ve seen, using that and other reports, the issue is triage and prioritized, then investigation happens.

Looking into the types of devices and other patterns that the abusive/incorrect tokens are coming from. Using data from the attester and the reported tokens to join patterns.

Depending on the bug, either fixing the bug in the attestation systems or working with the OEM to make changes to cover the new threat. Once that has been rolled out, the abuser is unable to continue that class of attack and has to find other ways around it or move onto other attacks.

**Caveat of Feedback Loops**

When developer comes with a report, their feedback might be wrong or imprecise, unable to properly sample their issue. Occasionally getting very noisy samples that need to be sifted through to find the “bad” attestations. \
 \
Usual process of having to go back and forth with the reporter to figure out why they think the attestation is wrong, and what makes them believe that. Depending on the feedback, might be triaged or discarded.

Sometimes feedback mechanisms used to abuse the system, feedback systems have to be designed for abuse against themselves. Sometimes attacks are actual abuse but have to be considered out of scope (click farms with real users). Hard to process with the bandwidth the team has to triage and investigate.

**Blinder**

The issue with blinders is that given a sample token, the attestation would be unable to tie it back to the attestation. In the near term it seems likely clients will try to collect extra information to try to help join a token to the original attestation, and each client will be doing this in their own way, which makes for a fragmented and difficult to use ecosystem.

**Our View**

Expectation is that attestation system are able to respond to bad users/good users being misclassified via updates and changes. Being able to iterate on their logic based on attacks seen in the wild.

Having a single foolproof solution is complex and unlikely to be able to happen in practicacility, especially where the platform is underspecified and a plethora of bugs exist.
