# March 18, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* UA Reduction (15 mins)
* Anti-Fraud & Privacy - Shape (15 mins)
* Update on Use Case Proposal (15 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19uIU8zv4dfl8RhFC_9dfTvDb4hH7mht4Bx1wxs1WJKY/edit)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iHsCtt3gp2OeTfDkqBfy4Ou6viwVSC3EBi1maAtTQSs/view)
* [UA Reduction Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tec2bCpGHGM4FkX4y4GFlBwCa9dWs1ukGot-xkHRX-A/view)
* [Anti-Fraud & Privacy Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Yfmx6u7pa4b8X_iQHE2WNuqEZySLZKKSsrI2rzUp6Go/view)

## Minutes

*   Intro
    *   Daylight savings change
*   UA Reduction (Mike Taylor)
    *   Intro to UA strings and plans for reduction
    *   Brief history of UA changes over time
    *   UA string is problematic for covert tracking and painful for developers to parse
        *   UA reduction should help
    *   “Freeze” or reduce UA string - only the high entropy parts
    *   Solves passive entropy problems, but UA-CH helps where sites need more information
        *   Default includes useful information, can request high entropy bits
    *   Timelines
        *   OT from M95-100
        *   Gradual reduction from 101, only return zeros “0.0.0” for 6 months
        *   For site that need more time, there is a deprecation trial to continue to opt in to legacy UA
    *   Questions
        *   Sam Jackson - by default, will folks be able to get all information?
            *    Mike Taylor - no current limit on entropy available today
        *   Brian May - When someone requests client hints, do you record what domains are asking?
            *   MT: Trying to combat passive entropy abuse, interventions are possible 
        *   Sam - is this tied to the privacy budget initiative?
            *   MT: Possible to allow browsers and users to limit access in the future.  If and when privacy budget is figured out, there could be related work here.
        *   Brian - Is this being pursued by other browder vendors as well?
            *   MT: All majors browser pursuing UA string. Safari already freezes everything but major version. Firefox keeps platform string to windows 10; so they’re doing platform version reduction.
            *   MT: We are collaborating on documenting behavior across browsers.
            *   MT: On UA-CH; Mozilla considers it to be non-harmful, and perhaps somewhat supportive of the JS API; but less supportive of the HTTP API. Don’t know Safari’s position, but have requested.
        *   Karan  - Can user opt out of what bits are sent?
            *   MT: today, not possible in chrome, but it is an interesting idea.  A web extension might be a possible solution
        *   Brian - Any problems on the web developer side with this?  Site compatibility issues?
            *   MT: so far, not a lot of bugs issued through the origin trials. One previous example, but zero open issues today, not that they don’t exist, but are not aware yet. 
*   Anti-Fraud & Privacy (Shape, part of F5, Kevin Gibbons & Michael Ficarra)
    *   Similar talk as TPAC 2021 presentation, with some additional content at the end
    *   Experience on Anti-fraud, very involved in web standards
    *   Shape prevents forms of fraud which are only feasible using automation
        *   Cred stuffing, carding, mass account creation etc. Higher value than other forms like ad fraud
    *   How it works - restricted actions too quickly
    *   Strive to make it more expensive, rather than impossible
    *   We currently catch this based on volume, since it’s hard to pretend to be different actors (e.g. look for users that might be lying about their platform)
    *   Every industry depends on anti-fraud and anti-automation services
        *   Generally contracted out to security partners
        *   Most often not relied on captchas 
    *   Use web technologies at odds with privacy initiatives
    *   Sometimes will use fingerprinting
        *   GPU, fonts etc to determine how often activity comes from same actor/origin
        *   Don’t need x-site tracking in this case
    *   Sometimes, we also look for irregularities in platform/UA string, traffic patterns “peakiness”
    *   We can’t not fingerprint and still make this work. We can’t just block and make this work.
    *   Captcha solving as a service is cheap ~$1 cpm, not expensive enough to stop automation
        *   Humans struggle with captchas as well, not right to exclude people
    *   Can’t just do profile-based blocks (e.g. library computer users have a new profile each time), or just use IP address based blocks (AWS/Cloud/etc ???)
    *   Trust Tokens only convey trust, not establish it
    *   If web platform makes it harder to defend, we may see an increase in fraud & automation
        *   Small changes might turn into big changes in fraud, e.g. if an attack becomes cost effective
    *   Not asking for a one-size fits all solution
        *   Users might not care as much about privacy when logging into their bank for instance, vs. health and wellness want full privacy 
    *   Encourage solutions that don’t require 
    *   Questions
        *   Philipp - frame things in terms of capabilities at risk when fingerprinting surfaces decrease, recognizing good users…
            *   Michael: Yeah, want to slightly reframe the first thing you said. Because we can divide traffic into relatively small bucket, we can say that any specific slice of traffic is anomalous 
            *   Other capabilities that could be useful. Hard to ask from browsers because this is adversarial. We can’t trust information from clients, because we don’t want clients to do things like synthesizing their fingerprint. They might recompile a fork of Chromium that exhibits different behaviors. So yes, would be great if we could separate out Chrome that was modified. There was a story that every Firefox embeds a unique identifier in the binary, and they dont provide that to websites, but it would be helpful for us to have that. But that would be better than what we do now, which is to render a bunch of stuff on canvas and extract fingerprints.
        *   Philipp: Android has an authentication system that runs on GMSCore that attests to the binary. Story is messier on win32 
            *   Kevin: I’m almost certain our adversaries have defeated that mechanism
        *   Brian May: Do you have a sense of $$ figure of what’s economically unfeasible. Is it about the benefit of the activity vs. the cost?
            *   Kevin: A compromised google account sells for 2-digit number of dollars. Bank accounts sell for hundreds/thousands of dollars. Varies wildly based on what the attacker is trying to do.
        *   Brian: Is this pervasive across all use-cases; or are there use-cases there users are okay with some onerous requests
            *   Kevin: We think users might be willing to forego certain conveniences to access banks vs. a newspaper. But also bank services are more essential, so it’s less feasible to provide onerous escapes. E.g. CAPTCHAs will just shut some users out. But yes, I think some applications can ask more of their users than others.
        *   Daniel: You had a one-off observation about a user’s expectation when using their bank. Would it be feasible for browsers to do something different where users are authenticated? E.g. observe login via WebAuthn via the normal state for browser-based authentication? Would it be possible to change privacy expectations in that casE?
            *   Kevin: That’s a good line to think along, but won’t solve everything. In some cases, like banks, users are willing to be fully de-anonymized. But in some cases like social media, and in some countries, users may not want their activity to tie to their real identity, or other transactions on the web. The other side is that it’s not just logins. E.g. lots of retailers offer gift cards that allow checking balance of gift cards that doesn’t depend on login. The only thing that makes it work is that it doesn’t allow automation. So there are other services that need to be protected that don’t have login requirements.
        *   Nick: Use-cases are a useful way to think about the problem; but I think thinking of it along a linear spectrum may be misleading. I don’t think the tradeoff is as the slide indicates. For example, we just heard a presentation on UA reduction; and sites requesting additional entropy with client hints. Allows informing user that site is requesting additional entropy. This solution doesn’t have nearly the same drawbacks, as the bank/gift card example indicates. The other thing is that it’s not a good idea to talk about privacy/security only in specific modes. We saw this previously with adoption of https. Questions about “why do you need privacy, unless you’re doing something problematic. Let’s not define privacy only in a “private browsing mode”. At the same time, considering situations where users are okay with sites knowing who they are might be a useful way to think about it.
            *   Michael Ficarra: Might be useful for there to be analogies between the browsing modes, and actual real world interactions. For example, when I go to a government building for government purposes; I am asked for ID. I may be uncomfortable with that, but am willing to share. It’s useful to have modes where you can opt-in to a less anonymous interaction with web services.
        *   Brian May: Was going to say something similar. There was a proposal about carevouts for websites where something sensitive is happening, e.g. checking gift card balance; where the browser would release more information
            *   This is the proposal I was reminded of: https://github.com/antifraudcg/proposals/issues/4
        *   Philipp: There might be risk of cross-site linking across banking and other services in such a mode.
            *   Kevin: Generally, govt is going to be aware of banking usage; but yes, there is certainly a case for de-anonymizing in a way that doesn’t allow those sites to then correlate your traffic
        *   Nick: We should be considering abuse of potential APIs. If we are going to consider an identifiable mode, even though a single spectrum doesn’t make sense; we have to think about widespread abuse. We know that APIs are currently abused for advertising purposes; and have websites requesting this mode all of the time.
            *   Kevin: Definitely. Agreed. It doesn’t necessarily need to mean we allow the ability for every website to ask for this. Website might need to attest to the browser that they will be using this information only in ethical ways. Not necessarily a good idea, but might be a way to reduce/prevent this kind of abuse.
        *   Sam: I previously introduced a proposal in this group about a [safelist](https://github.com/antifraudcg/proposals/issues/4) which does exactly this. As a group, we need to decide if we’re willing to entertain certification for access to more data; and then we need to discuss the process for such a mechanism. I was talking to FIDO alliance (they worked to get WebAuthn adopted in the w3c). They might be a good organization to consider for this certification. I can invite those folks to this meeting in the future, to discuss what certification might look like for this sort of safelist.
            *   Steven: Please open an issue on proposals repository, so we can line it up.
            *   Sam: Spoke to Jeremey Grant of the FIDO alliance, and he was open to it
        *   Ian Jacobs: Christina Hulka (of FIDO alliance, co-Chair of WPSIG) and I have a regular meeting; let me know if you need more connectivity.
    *   
*   Update on Use Case Proposals
    *   Steven: Dimitris had to hop off; so won’t spend too much time on this
        *   Dimitris would like to propose this as an item to adopt next week. Please take a look before then if you have comments. Can be iterated on later on as well; but needs a call for adoption every time; so better to get all changes in now.
        *   Change includes ???
        *   We will send an email to CG list if Dimitris decides to call for adoption.
        *   Ian: Been aware of this document https://github.com/antifraudcg/proposals/blob/main/use-cases/use-cases.md; but the one you’re presenting is different. Not sure how to get to the one Steven is presenting.
            *    - created a Google Doc to make it easier for collaboration.
    *   Other on proposals lists
        *   Steven will check back on Trusted Servers proposals.
        *   Sam to open an issue for the discussion on safelist certification with folks from the FIDO alliance.