# April 1, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* CG Updates (5 mins)
* FIDO Alliance (15 mins)
* Trust Token API (15 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EbBL3jholMZfLN7jZfs6E3isoNUwyiB05KLbfpjAAOA/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LEXIcydKJHJNOu6pwEwo-oHFZVwxmuP0LBEfZZRgcjE/edit?usp=sharing)
* [FIDO Alliance](https://github.com/antifraudcg/meetings/blob/main/files/FIDO-Alliance.pdf)
* [Trust Token API](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/144PJdWpWaKDPIoVQovwywLWEwXQhCS-UaHh13mxT82k/edit)

## Minutes

**CG Updates**

Next meeting April 29

Dimitris is taking a sabbatical, looking for additional chairs

Please respond to Dimitris’ message, or wait for Steven’s upcoming email.

We like to have 2-3 co-chairs, to help if a co-chair has a conflict of interest and to spread out the work.

Michael McNally: Would like to volunteer in Dimitris’ stead, as he also works for Human.

Steven: SG, let’s talk about it.

Sandro: I could also help

Steven: Charter has upper limit of 3, to avoid having too many cooks in the kitchen

Sandro: Fair enough

Steven: Also, there is a use case proposal with a mayday call for the community to adopt. Please try making any changes in the next week and a half or so, once we have more chairs we will see if we can ratify this doc.

**FIDO Alliance**

Sam Jackson: Historically put forward a proposal for an anti-fraud safelist. Includes Mechanisms like markup to designate sensitive areas, mechanisms for consent (add and remove parties able to see device details), certification mechanism. If services need to access sensitive data, they can assert their certification status and access these signals. We want to have a certification in place to prevent bad actors from getting access to these signals. One would have to meet certain requirements around data usage, ensure that data is not gathered in one area for fraud purposes, and re-used in another context for marketing, surveillance. Look at certificates for some examples, including the FIDO alliance - so we want to take a closer look at how they make this work.

Jeremy Grant is an advisor for FIDO alliance and has worked on cybersec/identity for a while.

Certifications are rarely loved. Fido alliance has developed standards around certification in partnership with the W3C. Fido develops authentication standards, certification and adoption programs to solve the password problem. Certificates are added at the chip level, so hardware manufacturers have joined, as have banks, healthcare – and security vendors. It’s a broad and large alliance, 300 members. The US gov, UK, AUS, DE, etc are also participating.

Fido was originally founded to solve the password problem. We’ve attempted to bolt on MFA for years, making the password experience worse for the user. Fido wants to get better usability and better security. Fido is a set of open standards for authentication using public key cryptography. Could be physical tokens, biometrics based, etc.

Fido stated as 2 standards: UAF (smartphones, laptops) and U2F (portable authenticators). Fido2 merges these two together. We realized that we needed to join W3C to get coverage, and built webauthn.

Today, you can’t really buy a device or get a browser that does not support FIDO. Certification is an important part of this, and has been helpful for market adoption. Is considered the gold standard by many agencies. 

FIDO gets questions from governments and regulated services about rigor, so FIDO introduced three security certification levels. Works with various 3P labs to do testing. This was appreciated, and FIDO was asked to extend certification to consumer biometric certification. FIDO worked with experts in biometrics space to certify consumer-grade biometric devices. Industry members continue to ask for new certification types. Started working on ioT (for secure device onboarding) w/ fido device onboarding; as well as identify verification (setting up an account for the first time) – is this user actually Jeremy Grant? Take a picture of your drivers license, then take a selfie – over 50 products exist, some are good, some are not. Fido started testing this, and plans to launch a certification later this year.

When Sam asked about the anti-fraud safelist, it seemed relevant to mention the work that Fido has done. Cisco now calls Fido the gold standard. In anti-fraud, we are looking at establishing norms across several countries, identifying acceptable practices and norms. Has technical working groups and adoption working groups.

Michael Ficarra: Does FIDO deal with certifying just the devices produced, or also the vendors of those devices? Do devices with embedded keys attest to that key, or also to some key of the vendor.

Paul Heim: We will certify the product, not the company. David: There is always the device key, but there may also be an attestation that ties back to the manufacturer. MDS (Metadata service) can be used to certify key. 

Michael: Do devices advertise that they have vendor keys? 

David: In most consumer scenarios, the attestation is not an important factor of the system.

Sam: Just to clarify my introduction -in prior meetings, we have established that we need privileged access to sensitive data. We are aware that if we open the access up, we introduce a danger to privacy. So then it was suggested, wouldn’t it be nice to have some body that says ‘you are a good actor, you are a bad actor’ and gate access. I don’t think many of us have experience creating or overseeing certification programs. As a group, we should decide whether this is an avenue we want to pursue, if so, what would such a certification program look like, who can we learn from? FIDO seemed really helpful in this context.

Per: Sam, +1 on certification for entities and getting sensitive data for legitimate use cases. Nobody knows how this will play out. We need to pursue multiple options - technical, compliance based, certifications are likely one of these options.

To the FIDO talk, if you could summarize - how could this work from an anti-abuse perspective? Simplify it. For example, you want to prevent adfraud or account takeover.

Jeremy: At a high level… TBD. Probably not adopting existing FIDO program, although it makes sense to look at how Google uses it for account takeover. There is a consistent theme across countries that regulate how info can be used for marketing, etc, there is almost always an abuse and fraud exception. We need to ask, how do we not lose access to this data for abuse and fraud prevention? We need to evaluate how companies are actually using data, and applying certifications to it. Can we verify how they are actually using it? Probably not on an ongoing basis. Might make more sense to look at their practices. First – assess whether there is an interest in industry to take on this certification program.

Per: Thank you, very helpful. So it makes sense to look at the companies that use the information, not just the devices themselves.

Jeremy: Will have to figure out how to prevent re-purposing of data, of course.

Nick Doty: I’m a bit skeptical of the certification and the long list of companies, but glad we are talking about it. Would like to talk to some browser teams to see whether they are open to this idea. Browsers may not be excited about maintaining long lists of companies, and being at risk if one of them is compromised. Also, web has benefitted from being open and letting new companies start up, without getting some sort of pre-approval. Glad we are looking at this, but wanted to surface reasons I’m still skeptical.

Also wanted to ask about anti-abuse potential of checking device attestations. Cloudflare has used these as aspects of trust – does anyone from Fido have more insights on how useful this has been for general abuse?

David: Can’t really rely on the attestation - manufacturers can choose to implement or not, varying levels of what is attested. Going forward, we are looking at platform authenticators – but today, the attestations are quite narrow and idiosyncratic. 

Nick: If someone does a device authentication on the device, does it prove that the person is actually there? 

Jeremy: Cloudflare tried a year ago to let people touch their yubikey in lieu of a captcha. Great for people who have YubiKey, but that’s a small crowd. Technically it was feasible, but needs market adoption.

Borbala: Question about Fido scoping. Originally scoped to prove ownership of the account. Are there plans to reason about the goodness of the account or device, not just the security key?

David: 2 parts to this. Legitimacy of the account gets into the ID proofing side of this. Fido itself does not deal with identity proofing, assumes that this gets done through the relying party. However, identity verification work in Fido is meant to improve the tools that are out there. A subset of that activity is identity binding - not as far along. Is there a system-agnostic way to bind the proofing event with the authentication event: prove that I went through identity proving and the authenticator – right authenticator used by the right person. Currently solved through internal processes, not yet interoperable.

Borbala: And about the integrity of the whole device?

David: Nope. Deal with the integrity of the key itself, represented in levels of security certification. Ranges from software based (1), in hardware (2), in hardened hardware (3).

Jeremy: There are US banks that want to verify only American-made security keys are used, attestation is important to meeting that use case, but niche use cases compared to consumer space—paypal is fine with any key that meets the standard.

Sam: Can envision signing affidavits; can envision examining network & architecture to ensure logical firewalls between different divisions.  Already precedence for this with Certificate Authorities.  No one likes this, neither party enjoys the experience, might be simplified by delegating this to FIDO or their affiliates.

Per: Device attestation is very useful for anti-abuse in many scenarios (others less). Important for catching emulator attacks but not a silver bullet, vast majority of ad fraud coming from real devices that would pass attestation checks.

Brendan: Another avenue, positive attestation of a user by measurement(?) entities; can they provide a trust token or similar idea to have… look at other ways of the technology to provide more information about the entity’s status. Could be useful if roadblocks come up.

Jeremy: Have been discussions about devices indicating consent. FIDO has avoided the ad space in past, though, not where the alliance has been focused.

**Trust Token API**

Steven presented on Trust Token API:

Traditionally used third party cookies, but this will no longer be accessible.  Instead, we allow parties to relay a limited number of signed bits across third-party boundaries. Imagine you are subscribed to the new york times, and get some # of tokens to read articles. You then browse to another service that requires you to have been subscribed to the NYT, and can spend these tokens to access the articles without disclosing your identity.



*   Cannot be forged
*   Cannot be altered
*   Verifiable by browser

Redemption records can be forwarded to content embedded on a site without spending more tokens for sub-resources. Each issuer has to disclose what keys they use (‘key commitments’), to prevent encoding information via choice of keys. 

Private Access Tokens are a variant that’s a bit more complicated. Allows limiting # of tokens that are spent on a particular site (e.g. subscription rate limit). This can enforce these limits while still providing privacy. Not yet supported by TT API. Requires a more complex ecosystem of mediators and issuers. Mediators need to know identity, issuers know the origins that the client is visiting. 

Next Steps:



*   Trust Token is in WICG currently, Chrome has been running experiments for past years.  Propose moving to this community group to see if these primitives are useful, then possibly once in then move to WebAPSec.

Links:

Privacy Pass (https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/privacypass/about/)

Trust Token (https://github.com/WICG/trust-token-api)

Private Access Tokens(https://github.com/tfpauly/privacy-proxy)

Betul: Curious about private metadata, is there a description of this?

Steven: Private metadata is a single bit of information included with tokens that is signed; useful for a token that represents a negative trust state (ex: failed to complete a captcha).  Experimenting currently with PMBTokens, may pursue standardization. Current API does support this.

Nick: Difference between Trust Token and rate limited Private Access Token? Is there a latency or cost to get the trust tokens, otherwise if they’re just free what is the anti-fraud advantage?

Steven: Both are rate limited. TT, for example a first party may only issue 10 or 100 or whatever’s useful for their use case.  PAT rate limiting is also by origin, place where tokens are redeemed.  In both scenarios you’d want to limit the number of tokens you issue.

Nick: Who is guaranteeing the rate?

Steven: Not currently spec’d, may be a contract or agreement between the issuer and consumers of those tokens what the policy is and what the token actually guarantees.  It is not currently embedded in the web api itself. Open question if we want more information in the API itself to communicate the policies and guarantees being provided by tokens.

Brian: Curious what kind of token is exposed when someone submits a token, what information is revealed by a user when they submit.

Steven: The only information you know is that the user at some point was issued a token by the issuer, and some limited amount of public metadata embedded in the token, six buckets (2.5 bits of information(?)). Needs to be a discussion to avoid abusive situations like every user gets its own issuer and that is used to de-identify users. Issuer signs a thing, cannot store what they signed and match it later.

Betul: Can the tokens be stolen?

Steven: Current thought is the issuance limits will prevent stolen models from having a massive impact.

Steven: Next steps will be to mail out this proposal to the CG and get comments.

Per: I think of TT as a method of communication.

**Other business**

Steven: Next session April 29th.
