# May 13, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* CG Updates (5 min)
* Cross-Partition Cookie Age Signal (15 mins)
* Proposals update: uses cases, capabilities, trust token API (15 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OpNlPYkwS5fUoxE6lACtS1mPfgw2eu2QDGieY8REv38/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R_tiyMYXDjOQJNRdSSreuG0D4IONdxWViJi1yMojwjI/edit?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-N-vl8OhhOs1lzSsbO1vhmQ)
* [Cross-Partition Cookie Age Signal](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1IAkMLsbDp0XIzuppJlAK2cWyyVm2q2Sxg_sHrk5omLc/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes

### CG Updates

Scheduling reminder: Every other friday, next meetings june 10

TPAC 2022 in Sept 12-16 in Vancouver, will be a hybrid meeting. Many covid rules, check the website.

There are some folks in the queue

Brian May: Q about next scheduled mtg before memorial day weekend, will folks be here?

Steven: Chairs will discuss early next week, we may cancel since folks are traveling and we have a light agenda - email will be sent

Ian Jacobs: Web payments IG and CG are considering a hybrid meeting with F2F in vancouver. Will folks from this group be traveling? If yes, that increases the likelihood we will meet in person.

Steven: TPAC is a weeklong event, would be helpful to know whether people will be attending in person/virtually/not, will do a zoom poll, will need to request a meeting if there is sufficient interest. (zoom poll was sent, ping Steven in chat if you did not receive the poll)

Poll about TPAC 2022 (24 responses):

11 Virtually

9 In-Person

5 Not Attending

Sofia: Nobody left in queue, let’s continue to the first presentation


### Cross-Partition Cookie Age Signal
*   https://github.com/antifraudcg/proposals/issues/9 

David Turner from Google traffic quality & Eric from privacy sandbox are presenting

Motivation: Publishers monetize through advertising, ad tech provider charges advertiser and pays publisher based on clicks/conversions. Bad actors generate invalid traffic (IVT) on publisher content, lacking genuine user interest or intent, with the purpose of getting undeserved payments. Current detection leverages many signals including 3P cookies and their _cookie age_. The deprecation of 3P cookies will adversely impact IVT detection by reducing cookie age, which was traditionally relied upon to cluster abnormal behavior.

Challenge: Legitimate users clear cookies, bad actors will repeatedly clear state to appear unique in long-tail 3P contexts. 1P origin-scoped cookies lack a global cookie age, and prevent distinction between users who are resetting partitioned cookies from users who are legitimately visiting for the first time.

_David passes the presentation to Eric _

Potential replacement signal: Low-entropy signal capturing the age of cookies associated with a given origin, across all 1P and 3P cookies associated with the origin. This age resets when any cookies associated with the origin are cleared/reset.

Example: User 1 sets a 3P cookie for 3p.example on pub 1. After 3 days this cookie is 3 days old, and the user visits 3p.example on pub 2. The cookie partitioned on pub 2 currently has 0 days of age. The new API cross-partition cookie age api would disclose that the pub 2 cookie actually has an age greater than 0 (exact age subject to bucketing), and the user would not be counted as a net-new user on their visit to pub 2. If the user clears any partitioned cookie (on pub 1 or pub 2), the cross-partition cookie age api would reset to an age of 0.

Potential buckets. What time frames should we consider? Want to limit the # of buckets to avoid creating a finger-printing surface - perhaps 2 or 3 max. Is there a reason to track a time horizon beyond one day? Does this need to be configurable per origin?

Potential issues: Clients lie about their age signal, clients may swap cookies.

Capabilities: Should we include the ability to infer cookie age a a capability for detecting invalid traffic.

Turning over for questions - queue:

Sam Jackson: Working in the identity fraud space, we have found cookie age to be useful. For example, people committing credit card fraud tend to not persist cookies, so the presence of aged cookies (or clients with tenure, more broadly) can help establish trust. Similarly, email tenure / age has been a useful signal. This deviates from this proposal, but perhaps a broader signal around the client’s tenure (via email or otherwise) may also be useful.

Eric: Yes, we are open to that direction and would like to continue the conversation

Chris Wood: Thanks for the presentation. Apropos the capabilities proposal, this seems premature. Have heard the claim that cookie age is useful. We do not have consensus that this is true in practice, until we have a sense of what are useful signals we should focus on the capabilities themselves – before fixing specific signals around deprecation of 3P cookies or whatever

[Ian hearing good project idea: writing down a set of signals people deem important.]

Eric: That is a fair point of feedback, though there is work that we can parallelize. We want to make sure that we are building useful signals, so we should also pay heed to the capabilities.

Aram Zucker-Scharff: How will this continue to be useful as 3PC become less common. [Teads stated that 40% of billions of views do not have 3PC](https://www.stateofdigitalpublishing.com/opinion/cookieless-is-not-near-its-here/). DuckDuckGo’s browser has a button that wipes out all cookies and we may see this as a more common user behavior. If we rely on this cookie age signal, how will we affect security conscious users? If users do not have 3PC and their 1PC start leaking state, perhaps they will also block 1P cookies. If more users start blocking 1PC, will this make this signal less useful? Perhaps attaching the “client age” signal to something other than cookies would be more future-proof. Worried that we are making an assumption based on a world with 3PC may not serve us well in a future that has fewer cookies in it.

Eric: We were envisioning this as a supplementary signal to ease 3PC deprecation, not a silver bullet. 

David: This signal would be used in concert with hundreds of others, potential impact on legitimate users that clear cookies will need to be thought through

Brian May: Want to reflect on what Aram said. 1PC will likely also be scrutinized and replaced by something that can be more easily controlled. That said, this proposal seems not hard to implement. Question about how this interacts with cookie clearing under CHIPs. Also, can we have a cookie age signal that degrades with requests.

Kaustubha: There’s an aspect of the site clearing cookies via the web platform, but perhaps your question is more about how the use clears state. This is more up to the user agent, still working with our counterparts in UX to understand how users will clear their data. Partitioned state is organized by top level site, so we need to think through how this trickles through embeds, and what user expectations are.

Ian Jacobs: Proposal involves sharing information about the user across origins, is that a fair statement?

Eric: Yes, it is a low entropy signal, perhaps as simple as “it’s older than a day (or not)”

Ian: But you can identify the user?

Eric: You cannot distinguish which user

Ian: In payments, we want to know “have we seen this user with this payment instrument before?” I realize this is focused on age and on advertising use cases. Perhaps there’s an abstraction here where another single bit can be shared without adding additional info

Eric: Will need to understand this better - we only want to share information that is relevant to the origin

Ian: When I see the same user in a 3P context across different 1P contexts, I want to know if this is the same user. 

Per: Cookie age may not be used very broadly, but for those who use it, it is very valuable. Has been used to prosecute fraudsters, but would not like to go into too much detail publicly. For very large volume abuse cases, we do not care about the individual user - we aggregate on the publishing agent and judge based on this aggregation.

Aram, to a couple of your points - in our environment (IVT?), logged-in is not useful, but even for logged-in services, there is a need to do abuse fighting before the user is signed in. If a user gets more captas following cookie clearing, this is likely a function of risk - similar to applying for a loan with little information, people are asked to provide more information/evidence.

Sam Weiler: Would like to find proposals that are less user hostile. Heard that one of the threat mitigations is “browser attestation.” Sounds like the browser is tattling on me - how is this serving the user? Think about myself, where I try to use unique emails for each site – so email age is not serving. This seems to violate the principle of putting the user first.

Per: If we stick to very few buckets, how does this adversely affect users? If we have these signals, we have less of a need for captchas and other checks. 

Sofia: closing the queue in 1 min

Brendan Kelly: Problem appears specific to a single entity, not to the entire industry. May not be broad enough to require an industry-wide solution. Will the loss of this signal impact the breadth of the IVT measurement spectrum, or could it be supplanted by very different signals. Can we do IVT detection without it? Is this really an industry issue, or core to a few entities - can we quantify the problem. As Per put it, few people use it.

Sam Jackson: This is a very useful signal, financial institutions, banks, etc find it to be the most predictive future in their models.

Aram: Agree with Per, talking about how aggregate signals work in this context could be a good deep-dive topic, perhaps at TPAC. Also worry that this is a signal that will eventually degrade, if it becomes ensconced in anti-fraud practice, we may end up with another problem to solve. 

Brian: If this were to become popular, it may also start reflecting different local storage states.

Eric: Wanted to respond to Sam Weiler’s comment on doing right by the user. We do want to think through the user’s needs, keeping their web experience private. We need to give the user proactive control by identifying a narrower set of signals to establish trust.


### Proposal Updates

*   Use cases: to the mailing list, reach out to Dimitri
*   Trust Token API: Wait for discussion in order to integrate Privacy Pass IETF API
