 # June 24, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Device Attestation Side Meeting Update (5 min)
* Trust Token Overview (10 mins)
* Yahoo's Experimentation with Trust Tokens (20 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Jm785r59GWejIXpHQL1jnmI5_HOGEy9tsQR49vaIp90/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WrSTsvQ4uwxDrd4VRI7Y0E3GNVGL6YVqDAlABV43nC0/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Trust Token Overview](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18pp0IqaGCfa8BTmGsHqqRJUaP4OiNJWMuSMORJTRiCw/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Yahoo's Experimentation with Trust Tokens](yahoo-trust-token.pdf)

## Minutes

Steven: Schedule



*   Brief overview of Device Attestation Meeting
*   Trust Token Overview
*   Yahoo’s experimentation with Trust Tokens

Philipp & Steven: Device Attestation Side Meeting Summary



*   Discussion on closed vs open platforms
*   Passing trust from high trusted hardware environment to less trusted environments
*   What happens in lack of attestation?
*   Desire to better understand attestation use cases

Brian



*   Distinguish a few paths from the side meeting. They might be orthogonal and can be explored independently.

Steven - Trust Token (TT) Overview



*   Prevent DoS, bots, spam, invlaid traffic
*   High Trust party (issuer) shares trust
*   Based on Privacy Pass (PP, being standardized)
*   Public metadata can be used to signal partial trust (i.e. 50% trust)
*   Private metadata is for issuer only
*   Two algorithms for use: blindRSA and VOPRFs
*   Chrome has been experimenting with the TrustedTokens: public metadata, not publically verifiable, javascript API and redemption records
*   Some caching mechanism on the redemption side
*   Variants: Private Access Tokens (PAT):
    *   Attester/Issuer split
    *   Rate limiting
    *   Interactive Tokens: the token includes a nonce
*   Next Steps: adopting anonymous credentials to AFCG. Align with PAT and PP (support blind RSA, rate-limiting and split of issuer/attester), build on capabilities of the Use Cases

Brian: Attestation on less critical cases. Can TT be used in browser API’s on user questions, gender, age?

Steven: uses tokens for attestation in the cases of anti-fraud. Figure out which values are sensitive, so it doesn’t leak information.Is that a capability for this community group?

Chris W: That specific attestation is an anti-goal. Not an specific signal that is specific for the individual: focus on the essential signal for the use cases, rather than as many signals as possible.

Aram: Token standards for sites to query multiple tokens in that way: 30 tokens each indicating a property of the user.. Is it possible?

Steven: It is not currently possible in the proposed API, as it creates leakage.

Ian: how can we leverage it to use for risk mitigation in payments? Private metadata can be used for this? Trust through the browser that the payment is correct. TT on payment use cases. Would like to discuss this at our joint discussion on 13 September (during TPAC). I’d like to work with people in advance to capture the requirements (e.g., from the 3DS perspective) and see whether we can discuss whether and how to use trust tokens for payments risk mitigation.

Nathan: Another use case: anti-abuse and also for adtargetting, location attestation, clicking on ads. Plant that seed in the group. Useful to make it difficult for bad actors to spoof their location.

Aram: There are other things being developed for some of these use cases. Tokens might not be the best proposal for location abuse/fraud.

Nick: Discussing different potential use cases (location, device, payments) of information of users. Is that the goal of the group or the trust tokens spec? Privacy advantages must not satisfy all requirements for all these use cases.

Chris W: Respond to Aram. Distinction between moving tokens from the fundamental property that each token attests to. The focus should be around what is the intent of the token in regards to each use case.

Sameer: Second what Ian said.

([Ian: In response to that comment about focusing on “use cases”, and given what Sameer just said, I understand the use case for payments to be the question: “is this a trustworthy device for this payment instrument?”)]

Brian: Verifying more critical use cases. Provide trustworthy information that does not reveal the information but attests to. Is that an interesting anti-fraud case?

Steven: figure out scope: look at use cases and a follow-up conversation.

Jaime Perez - Yahoo - Experience with Trusted Tokens



*   Identity team, goal is to keep out bad folks, keep in good folks
*   Motivation
    *   3PC depreciation
    *   Addressing spam and fraud
    *   Feasibility and limitations of TT in fraud combat
*   Work
    *   Build proof of concept, tested on  2021 Q4, and 2022 Q1
    *   Use case explored: distinguish between real users and imposters (mass account creation, fraudulent logins, ads)
    *   Implemented their own issuer
    *
*   Lessons
    *   Operation complexity
    *   Unknown effect of multiple versions
    *   Right use case is unclear
    *   Greater value is when trust can be shared across companies/entities
    *   Maintenance overhead, Boring SSL C library solve maintainers is Google
    *   Maintaining key commitments is fraught
    *   Failure modes and pathologies are unclear, hard to debug.
    *   Unable to determine proof of value

Steven:



*   Two issuer limiter is a problem with fingerprinting, it is a large problem in the space.
*   Can anyone see it? Internal discussions
*   One library? Internal discussions

Jaime: What use cases were there to begin with?

Steven: CAPTCHA for the beginning, or as an anti-fraud solution

Jaime: Will there be more implementations in other languages? Will there be only from Google?

Steven: hope that other people will write them. There is an internal python library

Nick: Follow up of the seen by anyone risk? Who is anyone? Who is seeing it? What about private metadata?

Jaime: Just the presence of the token. No one can see the private metadata, but knows that there was an issuance of a token.

Nick: Isn’t that the intention?

Jaime: That is part of the discussion. Is the presence for anyone or only for specific redeemers?

Nick: Private metadata can be received by the relying party, can an attacker go check whether the bit is 1 or 0?

Jaime: There will not be able to know what is the private metadata.

Steven: Issuer sees the private metadata. It is up to the issuer to share this.

Kaustubha: Touch up on use cases. I think it as a signal for cross site reputation. Today, systems use 3PC for this purpose. TT can be used to transfer cross site reputation.

Brian: Can you clarify cross site reputation?

Kaustubha: Reputation between sites.

Sameer: TT can be used to attest a user is trustworthy based on a payment made on a specific device.

Steven: next steps: continue on the use cases documents, talk more about that in future meetings
