 # July 8, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Private Access Token Attestations (15 mins)
* Use Cases Updates (10 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QE20gCJrGj3R5kGRyzTB6a7Dihytq0oBZ86NegsM4GI/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ahi6ZyodQA3m6YvS5d4Ztx8eOZfuBKC0nJThQtoLVBk/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Private Access Token Attestations](pp-attestation.pdf)
* [Anti-Fraud at Brave]()

## Minutes


* Sofia:
  * Welcome. Steven is traveling and won’t be joining us. So, Sofia would be driving the meeting.
  * For the agenda, two topics:
    * Private Access Tokens Attestations update by Chris Wood
    * Use cases updates
  * Reminder to be respectful in the group discussions.

* Brian May:
  * TPAC website says that the registration would open at the beginning of July. Any information?

* Sofia:
  * no, can circle back on Slack.

* Nick Doty:
  * an announcement from W3C that they will announce updates soon. They are trying to figure out some health protocols, registration expected to open next week.
* Presentation by Chris on the Privacy Pass Architecture and Attestation

  * Chris (via slides): when a resource is requested, the server issues a challenge to test if the user is a human and the user agent can solve the challenge and respond. Once the response is satisfactory, the server gives access to the resource.
  * Chris (via slides): the server could request attestation of a property via an issuer and an attester. The system is similar to having a single trusted issuer.

  * Chris (via slides): the attestation proposal is to treat attestation as a new signal that is fed into anti-fraud systems. Apple, Android and Windows all support different attestation mechanisms.

* Brian May:
  * proving that the token provided by the client is accurately representing the client? How can it be verified that someone has not farmed a lot of tokens and then used those tokens?

* Chris:
  * by design, there is no way to link the source of the token and the redemption of the token. So, yes, token exfiltration is possible. It is possible to use the tokens that are “fresh”. This use of tokens by devices in bad states which are relying on good devices to get tokens is not dissimilar from the case of use of VPN.

* Philip Pfeiffenberger:
  * if a service gets a lot of requests from certain devices which are being “attestated” as good, can the web service work with the attestor to zero in on those “mis-behaving” devices?

* Chris Wood:
  * from a protocol perspective there is nothing under the wire to diagnose this issue. The service can work with the issuer to communicate to the attestor that we are seeing abuse from attested devices. But, nothing beyond that.

* Chris Wood:
  * whether a token is redeemed or not requires the server and the attestor / issuer to know about each other. An attestor should not be working with a lot of issuers which would reduce the anonymity of the user agent. It is possible to implement the system in a way that the issuer can reveal which server the client is talking to. The most extreme example here would be that there is an origin that works with only one issuer -- in this case the issuer naturally knows the origin making the request.

* Per:
  * right now the privacy pass requires some sort of a relationship between two entities where trust is passed between two entities. For example, ebay checking if paypal knows anything about the user. Could there be a system where one checks if anyone has an opinion of the user agent?

* Chris:
  * would it be possible to specify a list of entities of trust and get back a value of “trustworthiness”? Maybe, but not sure. That may be the next step.

* Vinod:
  * how can high QPS systems like Ads use systems like privacy pass? Would it make sense to have some sort of caching mechanism?

* Chris:
  * are there any latency requirements? It’s possible for privacy pass to use caching but that alters the security model.

* Brian May:
  * for ads, can the system answer questions like “is this browser being operated by a male, 18 - 34?” which would allow advertising without collecting a lot of data about the user. Is there any notion of entropy limitation or is that out of scope?

* Chris Wood:
  * it’s built into the architecture. Using a lot of issuers would obviously compromise the privacy of the user. The attestation that the user / client participates is under control of the user/client, which would likely only be willing to give one bit: I have a valid device.
* Use Cases Discussion

* (Ian: I like the fact that the capabilities are attached to different short labels for use cases; that is helpful.)

* Yarne presenting https://github.com/antifraudcg/use-cases/issues/4.

* Brian:
  * this is going from capabilities to use cases. There might be a need for going from use cases to capabilities.

* Jordan:
  * AdSpam published the set of use cases that Ad traffic quality team at Google has.

* Sam Jackson:
  * worried about the move from browser entropy to these coarser one time signals.

* Per:
  * all of these are useful, but there is no silver bullet.

* Sofia:
  * closing!
