 # August 5, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Trust Tokens for IVT Detection Feedback (15 mins)
* TPAC (10 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nZuvZ-DPLrx7XHFvn_bmqLU8nFf9GAkLlNSvFco8sYY/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SKEajBAyA7aHwD3ScNnGTF3vHoGt5XGXo5o48Fp8ShQ/edit?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-sVahbKqdvEOvtq33tS88Pg)
* [Trust Tokens for IVT Detection Feedback](https://github.com/WICG/trust-token-api/issues/110)

## Minutes

Agenda:
Trust tokens IVT feedback 
TPAC planning

Jordan Ross from the Google Ad Traffic Quality team presenting trust tokens for IVT feedback shared here. Both platform provided trust tokens and the web trust tokens API were useful for IVT detection but cookieAge API and the device attestation API are likely to provide the same / better value and be simpler to use.

What are the next steps with trust tokens?

Steven Valdez: Chrome is planning further experiments and some more changes to the API through the rest of the year. In general was the API useful for IVT detection?

Bhanu: Yes, the API was useful for IVT detection but we think most of the same value can be obtained via the device attestation or the cookieAge API.

Nick Doty: what are the problems where cross-origin iframes need to redeem trust tokens? What use by bad actors is going to happen in those cases, and how would trust tokens help? if we have the threat model, then we can see how the gaps can be plugged.

Chris Wood: Would like to see Trust Tokens and Privacy Pass converge. 

Chris: Is a trusted relationship between the issuer and the redeemer necessary?

Bhanu: current API does not require that relationship? In the future there could be an issuer who is willing to issue tokens for the web and then other websites on the web could rely on the tokens issued by the issuer for anti-fraud purposes.

Chris: the context in which tokens can be transferred in PrivacyPass is very explicit. There needs to be a relationship between the issuer and redeemer.

TPAC: an email to follow with the logistics.
