 # September 30, 2022

## Logistics

12-1 PM EDT / 9-10AM PDT / 4-5PM GMT

## Agenda

* Use Cases Document (5 mins)
* Capabilities proposal (25 mins)
* TPAC Q&A (10 mins)

## Resources

* [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HD_8WjRDWm9GjMAv2OJMfwCye7qu3FeC3JORW3KXZr0/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chair Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VPtxOGRpvUHJkh86HDKbjVWDiCqDCWmW4UHWMrKTxIs/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Capabilities Slides](../files/Capabilities-0922.pdf)

## Minutes

### Use Cases and Capabilities

[Sam Jackson presents; deck pending]

Sam: We’ve been talking about use cases in this CG and since then have been talking about capabilities that would support mitigation of fraud as outlined via the use cases. We’ve seen several proposed capabilities and I’ve started to fold them in (via GitHub; not merged yet). Let’s discuss some comments that have been made on GitHub. At the root of some differences of opinion I think are some philosophical differences that I’d like to surface here.

[Example of device sharing / identification question that spawned discussion]

Sam: If you were a fraudster trying to get around a “count” control, could you find ways to work around that?

[Example of collecting device IP address]

Sam: Some discussion around use cases for which IP address is useful.

[Example of collecting geolocation data]

Sam: There was an interesting idea for an API that would allow a device to compare a submitted address against its actual location and whether they were proximal. Interesting questions about whether that signal could be manipulated.

Sam: IP Address raises some questions:



*   Obscuring IP would have widely felt consequences
*   So the question is, can we replace it with alternative capabilities.

Sam: Within this there’s a general question I have: what is the appropriate level of abstraction for accepted capabilities? Considerations:



*   Support current fraud mitigation v. new abstractions that provide better privacy posture
*   Loss of data points will not coincide with a smooth transition.
*   Can we really build our way out of this situation? Current practice involves using lots of data points and adapting to changing practices (e.g., machine learning).

So: what is our ultimate goal – do we enumerate existing practices or imagine new ones? Where do we draw the line?

[We look at GitHub comments in more detail.]

Some ideas discussed there like:



*   Recognize whether an “inordinate” number of identities are associated with a device.
*   Finer grain capabilities tied to IP address use cases.

PhilippP: Let’s not go too far into design (some of my comments may tend towards that). Some proposals may not be consistent entirely with privacy goals but move in that direction. For a given capability like “rate limiting” how can we get it with current technology? New technology on a given device? Cross-device? So maybe we can merge capability recommendations incrementally: add the clear winners first, then integrate others that are not yet clear.

Borbala: +1 to this work. I see value in enumerating signals that are used today (e.g., IP used for use case A, B, C, such as identifying repeat offenders). So we may need to distinguish: “what we are trying to achieve” from “signals currently used”.

Sam: makes sense to me. So maybe we can build a complete list, and then separately identify “current capabilities” from “target capabilities.”

BrianMay: What we are looking at here is parallel to what we are looking at in advertising: we are losing signals used to infer things; we have an opportunity to create purpose-built signals. E.g., in ad tech we gather (too much) data to determine gender; would be simpler if browser could attest to gender by querying the user. The approach I’ve been taking is to ask “what do we need answers to”; figuring out “what we use today”; and then conceiving of “what we could do moving forward that would be more deterministic”. I think IP Addresses are tricky, but I suspect we could get much of the information by interacting with the user (via the browser), or attesting to the truthfulness of information about the device.

Sam: Personally I have a concern that we’ve not yet seen engagement from security folks in this forum (or any other). I think  we need to both put forward a “north star” where we want to head, but also where we are now, so that we understand the transition (both how to get there and the challenges).

Sam: My takeaway would be that we include some of the suggestions made here (and welcome more).  I’m not hearing pushback to being inclusive.

BrianMay: It would be really helpful to get information about how each use case is currently addressed (while recognizing that some of that may be sensitive). 

Sam: Does that mean specific examples? Much that’s in the original pull request is along those lines. I do think we could surface a lot more information.

Yarne: One of the main things that came up in this pull request was around IP Addresses. Could we schedule a separate pull request specific to IP addresses, how they are used, and alternatives?

Steven: Spinning up additional documents could make sense where topics need more detail. We could also organize a call agenda item on IP Addresses.

Yarne: +1

Sam: Ok, I’ll spin up a separate doc on IP Addresses.


### TPAC Q&A

Joint discussion minutes:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W6uCLSI5ZEJf35\_mnUrc-PgLViLHv7ajetyiU\_zXFlM/edit

Steven: Good meetings; some minutes not yet available. Likely to have follow up related to privacy work, payments use cases.


###New Proposals

Steven: We received some new [proposals in GitHub](https://github.com/antifraudcg/proposals/issues): in particular 13-18.  Likely to discuss in some future meetings.


### Next meetings

*   14 Oct
*   28 Oct